YEAR 1999, CIK 804269, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

 AFS Funding Corp. is a wholly-owned bankruptcy-remote subsidiary of
 AmeriCredit Financial Services, Inc.; AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables
 Trust 1997-D is a bankruptcy-remote Delaware Business Trust. The Trust was
 formed solely for the purpose of acquiring from AFS Funding Corp. certain
 motor vehicle retail installment sales contracts (the "Contracts") and
 interests in the automobiles underlying the contracts, and securitizing the
 contracts through the issuance of debt securities (the "Notes"). As
 bankruptcy-remote entities, AFS Funding Corp. and the Trust are restricted
 so that they do not engage with, or incur liabilities to,
 any other entity (other than the Trustee on behalf of the holders of the
 Notes) which may bring bankruptcy proceedings against AFS Funding Corp. or
 the Trust and the risk that they will be consolidated into the
 bankruptcy proceedings of any other entity is diminished. AFS Funding
 Corp. and the Trust have no other assets other than the Contracts and an
 interest in the automobiles underlying the Contracts, and proceeds thereof.

YEAR 1998, CIK 884892, ______________________________

ITEM 1. Description 

 Rushmore Financial Group, Inc. ("Rushmore", "Registrant" or the "Company")
Rushmore is a financial services holding company that provides a wide range of
investment and insurance services and products to its clients through a national
distribution network of approximately 125 securities representatives operating
in over 30 states and more than 1,300 insurance agents in 39 states. The Company
believes that it is well positioned to take advantage of demographic trends in
the industry and the increasing overlap of investment services with other
financial security products. The activities in these two complementary
sectors of the financial services industry, investment services and insurance
services, allow Rushmore to provide a full range of financial services to its
clients and enhance the cross-selling opportunities of its select product lines.

 The investment services business consists of securities brokerage
services, mutual fund distribution, variable life insurance and annuities sales
and other financial services offered by Rushmore Securities Corporation
("Rushmore Securities"). In addition, Rushmore Investment Advisors, Inc.
("Rushmore Advisors") provides fee-based advisory services, using a proprietary
asset allocation program known as RushMAP.

 The insurance services business selects and markets a wide range
of life, disability, accident and health insurance and annuity products
distributed through more than 1300 independent or exclusive agents of its
affiliated agency, Rushmore Insurance Services, Inc. ("Rushmore Agency"). In
addition, Rushmore Life Insurance Company ("Rushmore Life") acquires and
coinsurers up to a 50% interest in the policies written through representatives
of Rushmore Agency that are issued by its primary life insurance companies that
have entered into modified coinsurance agreements with Rushmore Life.

Growth Strategy

 The growth strategy focuses on expanding its national
distribution network and continually seeking out and evaluating new products and
acquisition opportunities that are consistent with the objective to
provide a full range of financial products and services. Over the past ten
years, the amount invested in retirement and other financial security products
and services has grown over 185%. According to the Federal Reserve Board of
Governors, in 1986 the total amount invested in retirement and other financial
security products by households and non-profit organizations was approximately
$7.16 trillion, as compared to over $20.45 trillion at year end 1995, an 11.1%
compounded annual growth rate. The objective is to capture an
increasing share of the commission revenues and assets related to the investment
and insurance services industry. The key components of growth
strategy include:

o expanding its distribution network by recruiting and retaining high quality
 and productive agents and representatives, including both exclusive "Career
 Partners" insurance agents and registered securities representatives and
 independent insurance agents;

o providing its sales force with a wide range of financial products and
 services, including exclusive insurance and investment products;

o offering incentives to its agents and employee, including favorable
 commission structures, stock option plans and award programs to attract and
 retain a loyal base of highly motivated sales representatives;

o upgrading its management information system to allow its agents and
 representatives to maintain an efficient and orderly flow of sales orders;
 and

o seeking acquisitions of other insurance, securities or investment advisory
 firms and other complementary financial services companies that have a
 strategic fit and advance the overall mission and goals of the Company.

 Insurance Services. The Company intends to expand its coinsurance
activities with existing and new carriers, and actively seeks to acquire other
full-line life insurance companies licensed in multiple states to begin selling
the products of such companies through the agency force.


 - 2 -





 Securities Brokerage. Rushmore Securities' strategy is to continue its
growth by means of recruiting quality representatives, opening new branch
offices, acquiring other broker-dealers and increasing its volume 
referred from agents and representatives of Rushmore subsidiaries and their
customers.

 Advisory Services. Rushmore Advisors' strategy is to increase its assets
under management by maximizing cross- selling opportunities to clients of
Rushmore Securities and Rushmore Agency and acquiring other investment advisory
firms. Rushmore Advisors will emphasize three profit centers in these efforts:
 the Rushmore Managed Asset Program ("RushMAP"), (ii) estate and financial
planning for high net worth individuals, corporations and pension funds, and
(iii) a partnership investment that is structured as a "fund of funds", or a
grouping of experienced money managers selected to meet specific return
objectives within a defined risk tolerance level.

Investment Services

 Securities Brokerage--Rushmore Securities Corporation. Rushmore Securities
provides investment services to its clients through a network of approximately
125 registered representatives operating in over 30 states. Rushmore Securities
is a member of the NASD, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board ("MSRB") and
the Securities Investors Protection Corporation ("SIPC").

 Rushmore Securities functions as a full commission retail broker for
clients to whom it makes trading recommendations, on a discretionary or
non-discretionary basis, and as a discount broker as to unsolicited orders from
its customers and from trades initiated by other Rushmore subsidiaries. It also
sells mutual funds and variable annuity products.

 Rushmore Securities acts as a broker/dealer for a full line of securities
products, including stocks, bonds, mutual funds, variable annuities and
certificates of deposit. It is known as a "fully disclosed" originating broker,
meaning that it does not hold clients' funds, does not clear clients' trades on
securities markets, and is not a member of any stock exchange. Instead, it
forwards all clients' trades to one of the clearing firms with which it
maintains a contractual relationship to execute such trades on the appropriate
market. The Company currently has clearing agreements with Southwest Securities,
Inc. and First Southwest Company. This arrangement allows the Company to reduce
some of the risk associated with trading and the amount of net capital it is
required to maintain under applicable securities laws.

 Most of Rushmore Securities' registered representatives are also licensed
as insurance agents with Rushmore Agency. All such persons are employees of
Rushmore Securities and are compensated on the basis of commissions on sales of
investment securities. Each representative executes an agreement with Rushmore
Securities to sell securities to their clients exclusively through Rushmore
Securities and comply with Rushmore Securities' rules and procedures and all
applicable federal and state laws. Rushmore Securities supervises the efforts of
these representatives through over 30 registered securities principals and
branch office managers, who earn commissions and overrides on sales of
representatives under their supervision.

 Rushmore Securities is continually seeking to add new representatives,
especially those with prior brokerage experience and an established client base.
Rushmore Securities believes it competes effectively for registered
representatives based on its favorable commission structure, its ability to
provide its representatives access to all securities markets and research
reports from leading analysts, and the opportunity for representatives to earn
stock options in the Company. Through its affiliate, Rushmore Advisors, Rushmore
Securities also provides its representatives the flexibility to generate
commission-based or fee-based income. In addition, Rushmore Securities has
benefited from the increase in securities trading volume during recent years.
Combined, listed companies on the New York Stock Exchange and American Stock
Exchange and NASDAQ have increased from 6,414 in 1987 to 9,272 in 1997 with
market capitalization increasing from $2.67 trillion in 1987 to $10.68 trillion
in 1997, according to reports published by such exchanges. Combined average
daily share volume for the New York Stock Exchange and American Stock Exchange
and NASDAQ have increased from 341 million shares in 1987 to 1.1 billion shares
in 1997.

 Investment Advisory Services--Rushmore Investment Advisors, Inc. The
Company formed Rushmore Advisors in January 1996, in order to provide fee-based
investment advisory and money management services to its clients.

 Rushmore Advisors enters into investment advisory agreements with its
clients that outline the services to be provided and the compensation to be
paid. The agreements in force provide for annual compensation to Rushmore
Advisors from 0.5% to 2.5% of funds under management.


 - 3 -





 The investment philosophy of Rushmore Advisors is to provide superior
returns without materially increasing the associated investment risk. In
equities, Rushmore Advisors seeks to achieve long-term capital appreciation by
limiting its selections to listed stocks trading at more than $12 per share,
with consistent records of earnings growth and strong balance sheets. With fixed
income securities, Rushmore Advisors seeks income and preservation of capital
through a diversified portfolio for each client considering its income needs and
risk tolerance.

 Rushmore Advisors does not hold its clients' funds or securities. Rushmore
Advisors has discretionary authority to direct the investments in the majority
of the funds under its management. Virtually all trades effected by Rushmore
Advisors are executed through Rushmore Securities on a discounted basis.

 Rushmore Advisors cooperates with Rushmore Securities in providing its
services to clients of both firms through the Rushmore Managed Asset Program
("RushMAP"). RushMAP is a proprietary system that provides strategic and
tactical asset management allocation of mutual funds and equities for accounts
of $100,000 or more.

 Rushmore Advisors directs its marketing efforts to high net worth
individuals, corporations and pension plans having substantial funds to invest
and who can benefit from the efforts of a professional money manager. Rushmore
Advisors seeks to obtain clients having portfolios of at least $100,000 and
believes it can fill a niche being neglected by larger money managers.

 Rushmore Advisors does not currently employ a separate sales force, but
relies on Rushmore and Rushmore Securities' network of agents and
brokers to market the RushMAP investment management products, permitting its
managers to interact directly with clients.

Insurance Services

 Rushmore Insurance Services, Inc. The Company markets life, health and
disability insurance and annuities to individuals and small businesses through a
network of exclusive and independent agents. The Rushmore Agency group has
primarily marketed policies under national marketing agreements with Conseco
Life Insurance Company, Southwestern Life Insurance Company and Great Southern
Life Insurance Company, the companies with which it has entered into coinsurance
arrangements (the "Primary Insurers"). For the year ended December 31, 1997, the
gross revenues generated from insurance written with the Primary Insurers
accounted for the majority of Rushmore total revenues. Rushmore
 agents also market policies issued by numerous other life insurance
companies, of which most are rated "A" or better by A.M. Best, that have
appointed Rushmore Agency and its agents to sell on their behalf (the "Other
Insurers"). The agents are employed by or have contracts with Rushmore
Agency, which is owned by D. M. Moore, Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of Rushmore, because the Texas Insurance Code does not permit life insurance
agencies to be owned by corporations. However, pursuant to an Overhead Services
Agreement all revenues and expenses of Rushmore Agency are passed through to the
Company as permitted by regulatory requirements. In addition, Mr. Moore has
granted the Company an irrevocable option for the Company to appoint any other
qualified person to acquire the capital stock of Rushmore Agency on its behalf,
thus insuring the ability to continue receiving that income and
expense.

 Insurance Products. The insurance agents sell a wide range of
insurance and annuity products issued by the Primary Insurers and Other Insurers
consisting primarily of life and health insurance. These include life insurance
in the form of term life, universal life, fixed and variable annuities and
variable universal life (universal life products are flexible premium life
insurance policies under which the policyholder may adjust the death benefit
from time to time or vary the amount or timing of premium payments); health
insurance including cancer insurance, major medical, group health and group and
individual long-term disability insurance. Agents who sell variable life and
annuity products are also licensed as securities representatives with Rushmore
Securities.

 Rushmore Agency has entered into an agreement with the American Financial
Freedom Association, a not-for-profit organization ("AFFA"), to administer AFFA
and serve as its exclusive marketing organization for insurance services and
investment services and other benefits to AFFA members. AFFA offers its members,
including Rushmore clients, the opportunity to participate in lower cost group
insurance and other benefits of AFFA, including discounted optical and dental
benefits, prescription drug cards and consumer discounts. Rushmore Agency has
also entered into a national marketing agreement with Legion Insurance Company
to market its individual and group health insurance plans to AFFA members
through Rushmore Career Partners Group.


 - 4 -





 Sales and Marketing. As of June 1, 1998, the Company either employed or
contracted with more than 1,300 independent or exclusive agents in 39 states,
who have been appointed by Rushmore Agency, the Primary Insurers and Other
Insurers to sell policies of the Primary Insurers and Other Insurers as part of
Rushmore marketing organization.

 In July 1997, the Career Partners Group began developing
full-time, career-oriented agents to market the products and services of the
Insurers and Other Insurers on an exclusive basis. The Career Partners agents
market bundled and packaged products, primarily to individuals in the small
business and self-employed market in Texas. Rushmore Agency plans to expand the
Career Partners Group to other states.

 Rushmore Agency continually seeks to recruit new agents to join its
marketing force. It recruits primarily existing licensed agents as well as
unlicensed persons with proven sales backgrounds whom it trains to become
licensed. The Company utilizes both advertising and referrals to locate
qualified persons. Rushmore Agency is able to compete for new agents on the
basis of the quality of the insurance products it offers, the opportunity for
increased income through higher payouts and a more diversified product
portfolio, sales training, and the opportunity to participate in the 
Stock Option Plans.

 Rushmore Life Insurance Company. A key feature of the strategy is
to capture, through coinsurance agreements, a portion of the premiums from sales
of insurance policies in addition to commissions. The Company acquired a 20%
interest in Rushmore Life in 1994, and in April 1997 completed a merger
transaction to acquire the balance of Rushmore Life in exchange for 534,187
shares of Rushmore Common Stock and $137,900 in cash. Rushmore Life is chartered
as a life reinsurance company in the State of Arizona and is not licensed in any
other state. Its business is therefore limited to coinsuring policies written by
Rushmore agents and issued by its Primary Insurers that have entered into
modified coinsurance agreements with Rushmore Life.

 Rushmore coinsurance arrangements typically consist of a modified
coinsurance agreement, under which Rushmore Life receives between 331/3% and 50%
of the premium income and associated insurance risk on policies written by
Rushmore agents. Because Rushmore retention limit is $25,000 per
policy, the differential between such retention and the amount coinsured with
the Insurer is then reinsured back to the Insurer or another reinsurance
carrier. Rushmore Life earns a spread between the net coinsured premium income
and the lower reinsurance premium. In the case of the coinsurance arrangement
with the block of insurance written with Conseco, Rushmore Life is also party to
an administrative services agreement pursuant to which a subsidiary of Conseco
administers the block. Rushmore life will continue to pursue national marketing
and coinsurance agreements with other major life insurance companies.

The Industry

 The brokerage and insurance industries are highly competitive with many
large, diversified, well-capitalized brokerage firms, financial institutions and
other organizations. The Company, in many instances, competes directly with such
organizations for market share of commission dollars, and qualified registered
representatives and insurance agents.

 Insurance Services. The agency operations are competitive in all
of its phases, and there are more than 2.5 million insurance agents in the
United States representing more than 1,100 life and health insurance companies.
The Company is able to compete effectively on the basis of the quality and
pricing of the insurance products offered by the Primary Insurers and Other
Insurers, and incentives to its agents to sell the products through
the commission structure, administrative and marketing support,
achievement and award programs, management opportunities and stock option plans.

 Securities Brokerage. Rushmore Securities' competes among more than 5,400
NASD member firms employing more than 500,000 registered representatives.
Rushmore Securities believes it is able to compete effectively due to Rushmore
Securities' access to the same securities as larger firms and the experience and
qualification of its sales force. Rushmore Securities believes it competes
effectively for registered representatives based on its favorable commission
structure, its ability to provide its representatives access to all securities
markets and research and the opportunity to earn stock options in the Company.

 Investment Advisory. Rushmore Advisors attracts funds for management
utilizing the broad network of brokers and agents of Rushmore Insurance and
Rushmore Securities. Rushmore Advisors also utilizes a network of and
other professionals who actively market fee-based advisory services. Rushmore
Advisors markets its services emphasizing its

 - 5 -





flexible fee structure and its investment track record. Rushmore Advisors has an
information system that provides direct and timely access to the world markets
and information systems, as well as, a proprietary investment management
reporting system that is in compliance with the performance reporting standards
of the Association of Investment Management and Research ("AIMR").

Employees

 As of June 1, 1998, Rushmore had a total of 139 employees, including 117 in
its securities operations, 13 in its insurance services area, 4 in its advisory
business, and 5 in its executive offices. A total of 23 are located at the
 offices in Dallas. All but 9 employees are compensated all or in part
on the basis of commissions and other incentive-based compensation.

 The Company is under contract with an additional 1,300 independent or
exclusive agents to market life insurance in 39 states.

Regulation

 The Company is subject to a high degree of regulation. The
insurance and securities businesses are two of the most highly regulated
industries in the United States, and regulatory pressures can have a direct
effect on the operations.

 Insurance Regulation. Rushmore Life is subject to comprehensive state
insurance regulation by the Division of Insurance of the State of Arizona.
Additionally, Rushmore Life will be subject to regulation in any other states in
which it conducts business in the future. The powers of the Commissioner of
Insurance in Arizona and other states include the granting and revocation of
certificates of authority to transact insurance business, review of adequacy of
reserves and of guaranty funds and surplus required by statute, determination of
the form and XXof required financial statements, approval of policy forms,
and review of Rushmore Life practices so as to ascertain that certain
standards are met. These supervisory agencies periodically examine the business
and accounts of insurers and require insurers to file detailed annual statutory
statements.

 Rushmore Life can also be required under the solvency or guaranty laws of
the State of Arizona to pay assessments (up to prescribed limits) to fund
liabilities of insurance companies that become impaired or insolvent. These
assessments may be abated or deferred if they would endanger the ability of
Rushmore Life to fulfill its contractual obligations. The amount of any future
assessments under these laws cannot reasonably be estimated.

 Arizona and substantially all other states regulate members of insurance
holding company systems. Under the insurance holding company statute in Arizona,
the insurance authorities in such state must approve in advance the direct or
indirect acquisition of 10% or more of the voting securities of an insurance
company chartered in Arizona. Such statutes also regulate certain transactions
among affiliates, including the payment of dividends or service fees by an
insurance company to its holding company parent. In states such as Arizona,
without the consent of the insurance authority, an insurance company may
not pay during any year dividends to its holding company parent in excess of the
lesser of net gains from operations, which generally represent net income, or
10% of the insurance surplus, which generally represents paid in
capital and retained earnings.

 The Company has entered into an Administrative Services Agreement with
Rushmore Life, approved by the Arizona Department of Insurance, that allows the
Company to charge a share of its overhead and all direct costs to Rushmore Life.

 In the event Rushmore Life should fail to comply with applicable insurance
laws and regulations, the Commissioner of Insurance of Arizona is empowered,
depending upon the circumstances and the particular provisions in question, to
impose fines and/or penalties against Rushmore Life, suspend or revoke Rushmore
 certificate of authority, to direct supervision of or appoint a
conservator for Rushmore property and conduct of its business or to seek
such other relief as the circumstances and interest of Rushmore Life policy
holders and creditors may require.

 Rushmore Agency is subject to regulation as an insurance agency by the
Texas Department of Insurance. Such regulations includes the requirement for all
agents to pass tests and background checks. Rushmore Agency is subject to
periodic examination and can be fined, censured or even liquidated if it is
found to be in violation of applicable standards.


 - 6 -





 Securities Regulation. Rushmore Securities is subject to regulation by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the NASD, the SIPC, the Texas State
Securities Board and the securities exchanges. The NASD and State Securities
Board regularly inspect Rushmore Securities' books and records to determine
compliance with laws applicable to securities dealers.

 Investment Adviser Regulation. Depending on their size, investment advisers
are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission or state
securities regulators. Such regulation covers testing and background checks on
officers and employees of the advisor, review and approval methods,
compensation structures and advisory agreements, and advertising.

Year 2000 Readiness

 The Company is establishing a Year 2000 due diligence process to identify
and assess the critical on-site software and hardware inventory to achieve Year
2000 readiness. The Company is also establishing monitoring procedures to verify
that its service and product vendors, particularly the primary insurers and
clearing brokers, are taking appropriate action to achieve Year 2000 readiness.
Management believes that the level of risk due to potential problems
with its internal systems is manageable. Any expenditures on operations are not
expected to have a material impact on the financial condition.

Environmental Matters

 None of the activities result in any discharge of hazardous
materials or other environmental risks.

YEAR 1999, CIK 877355, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company

 LandAmerica Financial Group, Inc. (the "Company") is a holding company
organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia on June 24, 1991. The
Company, through its subsidiaries, is engaged in the business of issuing title
insurance policies and performing other real estate-related services for both
residential and commercial real estate transactions. As a holding company, the
Company has greater flexibility in conducting certain operations, especially
with regard to capital transactions, while the operating title insurance
subsidiaries remain subject to regulation by the various states. See
"Regulation" below.

 The Company has its principal executive offices at 101 Gateway Centre
Parkway, Richmond, Virginia 23235-5153. Its telephone number is (804) 267-8000.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the Company, as used herein, refers to
the Company and each of its subsidiaries.

Overview of the Operations

 Title Insurance. The Company issues title insurance policies through
its various title underwriting subsidiaries. The three principal title
underwriting subsidiaries are Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company
("Commonwealth"), Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation ("Lawyers Title") and
Transnation Title Insurance Company ("Transnation"). The Company also owns 11
other title insurance underwriters, including Commonwealth Land Title Insurance
Company of New Jersey, Oregon Title Insurance Company, Title Insurance Company
of America and Industrial Valley Title Insurance Company. The collective
operations of these subsidiaries cover the entire United States (with the
exception of Iowa, which does not recognize title insurance) and certain
territories of the United States.

 In connection with the issuance of title insurance policies, the
Company performs title search and examination services and also offers closing
protection letters to lenders and owners who purchase title insurance. The
Company also furnishes certificates of title and abstracts of title in some
states.

 Escrow and Closing Services. In addition to the issuance of title
insurance policies, the Company provides escrow and closing services to a
broad-based customer group that includes lenders, developers, real estate
agents, attorneys and home buyers and sellers. In California and a number of
western states, it is a general practice, incident to the issuance of title
insurance policies, to hold funds and documents in escrow for delivery in real
estate transactions upon fulfillment of the conditions to such delivery. In the
mid-western states, Florida and some eastern cities, it is customary for the
title company to close the transaction and disburse the sale or loan proceeds.
Fees for such escrow and closing services are generally separate and distinct
from premiums paid for title insurance policies.

 Ancillary Services. The Company offers a full range of residential real
estate services to the national and regional mortgage lending community through
its LandAmerica OneStop operation. The services of LandAmerica OneStop include
the coordination of title insurance orders, credit reporting, flood
certification, property appraisal and valuation, centralized closing and escrow
services, real estate tax services, document preparation and property
inspections. These services are available to national and regional mortgage
lenders through a single point of contact with the Company and are provided by
subsidiaries of the Company or through joint ventures or strategic alliances
with third parties.



 -2-


 The Company also is a provider of certain specialized services
associated with real estate transactions through Commonwealth Relocation
Services, Inc. ("Commonwealth Relocation") and its exchange company
subsidiaries. Commonwealth Relocation offers national employee relocation
services. LandAmerica Exchange Company and The National 1031 Exchange
Corporation facilitate property exchanges pursuant to Section 1031 of the
Internal Revenue Code by holding the sale proceeds from one transaction until a
second acquisition occurs, thereby assisting customers in deferring the
recognition of taxable income.

 Technology Subsidiaries. The title insurance industry has become
increasingly automated. The Company has two wholly owned subsidiaries devoted to
computer automation of various aspects of the title insurance business. Elliptus
Technologies, Inc. ("Elliptus") develops and markets title production and escrow
software that automates policy issuance, escrow and closing documentation and
support functions. Datatrace Information Services Company, Inc. provides
automated title plant services. In addition, the Company has one subsidiary, Day
One, Inc., which develops and markets property valuation software to the
appraisal industry.

Principal Title Underwriting Subsidiaries

 Commonwealth. Commonwealth was founded as a title insurance company in
1876 and was incorporated in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on April 1, 1944.
Commonwealth is licensed by the insurance departments of 49 states, the District
of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

 Lawyers Title. Lawyers Title, a Virginia corporation, has been engaged
primarily in the title insurance business since 1925. Lawyers Title
is conducted in 49 states and in the District of Columbia, the territories of
Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Bahamas and a number of Canadian
provinces.

 Transnation. Transnation, an Arizona corporation, is the successor to
Transamerica Title Insurance Company, which commenced business on March 26,
1910. Transnation is licensed by the insurance departments of 40 states and the
District of Columbia.

Title Insurance and Underwriting

 Title Insurance. Title insurance policies are insured statements of the
condition of title to real property. Such policies indemnify the insured from
losses resulting from certain outstanding liens, encumbrances and other defects
in title to real property that appear as matters of public record, and from
certain other matters not of public record. Title insurance is generally
accepted as the most efficient means of determining title to, and priority of
interests in, real estate in nearly all parts of the United States. Many of the
principal customers of title insurance companies buy insurance for the accuracy
and reliability of the title search as well as for the indemnity features of the
policy. The beneficiaries of title insurance policies are generally owners or
buyers of real property or parties who make loans on the security of real
property. An policy protects the XX insured against title defects,
liens and encumbrances existing as of the date of the policy and not
specifically excluded or excepted from its provisions, while a policy,
in addition to the foregoing, insures against the invalidity of the lien of the
insured mortgage and insures the priority of the lien as stated in the title
policy.

 While most other forms of insurance provide for the assumption of risk
of loss arising out of unforeseen future events, title insurance serves to
protect the policyholder from the risk of loss from events that predate the
issuance of the policy. This distinction underlies the low claims loss
experience of title insurers as compared to other insurance underwriters. Losses
generally result either from judgment errors or mistakes made in the title
search and examination process or the escrow process or from hidden defects such
as fraud, forgery, incapacity or missing heirs.



 -3-


Operating expenses, on the other hand, are higher for title insurance companies
than for other companies in the insurance industry. Most title insurers incur
considerable costs relating to the XX required to process forms, search
titles, collect information on specific properties and prepare title insurance
commitments and policies.

 Underwriting. The Company issues title insurance policies on the basis
of a title report, which is prepared pursuant to underwriting guidelines
prescribed by the Company, after a search of the public records, maps and
documents to ascertain the existence of easements, restrictions, rights of way,
conditions, encumbrances, liens or other matters affecting the title to, or use
of, real property. In certain instances, a visual inspection of the property is
also made. Title examinations may be made by branch employees, agency XX
or approved attorneys, whose reports are utilized by or rendered to a branch or
agent and are the basis for the issuance of policies by the Company. In the case
of difficult or unusual legal or underwriting issues involving potential title
risks, the branch office or agent is instructed to consult with a designated
supervising office. The contracts with independent agents require that
the agent seek prior approval of the Company in order to commit the Company to
assume a risk over a stated dollar limit.

 The Company owns a number of title plants and in some areas leases or
participates with other title insurance companies or agents in the cooperative
operation of such plants. Title plants are compilations of copies of public
records, maps and documents that are indexed to specific properties in an area,
and they serve to facilitate the preparation of title reports. In many of the
larger markets, the title plant and search procedures have been automated. To
maintain the value of the title plants, the Company continually updates its
records by regularly adding current information from the public records and
other sources. In this way, the Company maintains the ability to produce quickly
and at a reduced expense a statement of the instruments which constitute the
chain of title to a particular property.

Direct and Agency Operations

 The Company issues title insurance policies through its direct
operations (which include branch offices of its title insurers and wholly owned
subsidiary agencies of the Company) or through independent title insurance
agents. Where the policy is issued through its direct operations, the search is
performed by or at the direction of the Company, and the premium is collected
and retained by the Company. Where the policy is issued through an independent
agent, the agent generally performs the search (in some areas searches are
performed by approved attorneys), examines the title, collects the premium and
retains a portion of the premium. The remainder of the premium is remitted to
the Company as compensation for bearing the risk of loss in the event a claim is
made under the policy. The percentage of the premium retained by an agent varies
from region to region and is sometimes regulated by the states. The Company is
obligated to pay title claims in accordance with the terms of its policies,
regardless of whether it issues policies through direct operations or
independent agents. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, approximately
48.9% of total title insurance revenues were derived from direct operations and
51.1% came from independent agents.

 The premium for title insurance is due in full when the real estate
transaction is closed. Title insurance premium revenues from direct operations
are recognized by the Company upon the closing of the transaction, whereas
premium revenues from agency operations are recognized by the Company upon
receipt of such premiums. Premiums from independent agents are typically
remitted to the Company an average of 90 days after the closing of the real
estate transaction.

Insured Risk on Policies in Force

 The amount of the insured risk or "face amount" of insurance under a
title insurance policy is generally equal to either the purchase price of the
property or the amount of the loan secured by the property. The insurer is also
responsible for the cost of defending the insured title



 -4-


against covered claims. The actual exposure at any time is
significantly less than the total face amount of policies in force because the
risk on an policy is often reduced over time as a result of subsequent
transfers of the property and the reissuance of title insurance by other title
insurance underwriters, and the coverage of a policy is reduced and
eventually terminated as a result of payment of the mortgage loan. Because of
these factors, the total contingent liability of a title underwriter on
outstanding policies cannot be precisely ascertained.

 In the ordinary course , the underwriting
subsidiaries represent and defend the interests of their insureds, and provide
on the consolidated books for estimated losses and loss adjustment
expenses. Title insurers are sometimes subject to unusual claims (such as claims
of Indian tribes to land formerly inhabited by them) and to claims arising
outside the insurance contract, such as for alleged negligence in search,
examination or closing, alleged improper claims handling and alleged bad faith.
The damages alleged in such claims arising outside the insurance contract may
often exceed the stated liability limits of the policies involved. While the
Company in the ordinary course of its business has been subject from time to
time to these types of claims, the losses to date on such claims have
not been significant in number or material in dollar amount to the 
financial condition.

 Liabilities for estimated losses and loss adjustment expenses represent
the estimated ultimate net cost of all reported and unreported losses incurred
through December 31, 1998. The reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment
expenses are estimated using individual case-basis valuations and statistical
analyses. Those estimates are subject to the effects of trends in loss severity
and frequency. Although considerable variability is inherent in such estimates,
management believes that the reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses
are adequate. Independent actuaries review the adequacy of reserves on an
interim basis and certify as to their adequacy on an annual basis. The reserve
estimates are continually reviewed and adjusted as the loss experience
develops or new information becomes known. Any adjustments to loss reserve
estimates are included as a current operating expense. The provision for policy
and contract claims as a percentage of operating revenues for 1998 was 5.2%, for
1997 was 5.4%, and for 1996 was 5.2%. See " Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations."

 The Company generally pays losses in cash; however, it sometimes
settles claims by purchasing the interest of the insured in the real property or
the interest of the claimant adverse to the insured. Assets acquired in this
manner are carried at the lower of cost or estimated realizable value, net of
any indebtedness thereon.

 Standard & Poors Corporation ("S&P") has assigned a financial strength
rating of "A" to the title insurance operations of the Company. According to
S&P, an insurer rated "A" has strong financial security characteristics, but is
somewhat more likely to be affected by adverse business conditions than are
insurers with higher ratings. Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co. ("Duff & Phelps")
has assigned an "A" rating to the claims-paying ability of the Company.
According to Duff & Phelps, an "A" rating is assigned to those companies which
have a high claims-paying ability, protection factors are average and there is
an expectation of variability in risk over time due to economic and/or
underwriting conditions. Duff & Phelps also assigns a ratings outlook along with
its letter ratings to indicate its expectations of trends that relate to the
claims-paying ability rating for the rated company. The ratings outlook assigned
by Duff & Phelps may be either "positive," "stable" or "negative." According to
Duff & Phelps, the ratings outlook for the Company is "positive." The S&P and
Duff & Phelps ratings are not designed for the protection of investors and do
not constitute recommendations to buy, sell or hold any security.

 The Company places a high priority on maintaining effective quality
assurance and claims administration programs. The quality assurance
program focuses on quality control, claims prevention and product risk
assessment for its independent agencies. The claims administration program
focuses on improving liability analysis, prompt, fair and effective handling 



 -5-


of claims, prompt evaluation of settlement or litigation with first and
third-party claimants and appropriate use of ADR (Alternative Dispute
Resolution) in claims processing. In addition, to reduce the incidence of agency
defalcations, the Company has implemented due diligence requirements in
connection with the appointment of new agents, adopted procedures for renewing
existing agents and established an Agency Audit Program. The Company continues
to refine its systems for maintaining effective quality assurance and claims
administration programs.

Reinsurance and Coinsurance

 The Company distributes large title insurance risks through the
mechanisms of reinsurance and coinsurance. In reinsurance agreements, the
reinsurer accepts that part of the risk which the primary insurer (the "ceding
company" or "ceder") decides not to retain, in consideration for a portion of
the premium. A number of factors may enter into a decision to
reinsure, including retention limits imposed by state law, customer demands and
the risk retention philosophy of the company. The ceder, however, remains liable
to the insured for the total risk, whether or not the reinsurer meets its
obligation. The Company may reinsure from among its own title insurance
subsidiaries or may reinsure with unaffiliated reinsurers. As a general rule,
when the Company purchases reinsurance on a particular risk from unaffiliated
reinsurers, it will generally retain a primary risk of $5.0 million and may
participate with such reinsurers on liability amounts above the primary level on
a secondary level. Reinsurance is generally purchased from unaffiliated
reinsurers if the risk is greater than $150.0 million.

 The Company assumes reinsurance from unaffiliated title insurance
underwriters pursuant to a standard reinsurance agreement concerning specific
title insurance risks for properties on which it assumes a portion of the
liability. The Company has entered into numerous reinsurance agreements with
other title insurance underwriters on specific transactions. The 
exposure on all reinsurance assumed is reduced due to retention by the ceding
company of a substantial primary risk level. In addition, exposure under these
agreements generally ceases upon a transfer of the insured properties and, with
respect to insured loans, is decreased by reductions in mortgage loan balances.
Because of this, the actual exposure is much less than the total reinsurance
which the Company has assumed. The Company provides loss reserves on assumed
reinsurance business on a basis consistent with reserves for direct business.

 The Company utilizes coinsurance to enable it to provide coverage in
amounts greater than it would be willing or able to undertake individually. In
coinsurance transactions, each individual underwriting company issues a separate
policy and assumes a fraction of the overall total risk. Each coinsurer is
liable only for the particular fraction of the risk it assumes.

 The Company enters into reinsurance and coinsurance arrangements with
most of the larger participants in the title insurance market and such
arrangements are not materially concentrated with any single title insurance
company. Revenues and claims from reinsurance are not material to the Company as a whole.

 Two of the subsidiaries, Commonwealth and Transnation,
maintain excess-of-loss catastrophe reinsurance from Capital Title Reinsurance
Co. These policies cover losses of up to $40.0 million in excess of $10.0
million for single properties and up to $40.0 million in excess of $20.0 million
for multisite transactions.



 -6-


Title Insurance Revenues

 The table below sets forth, for the years ended December 31, 1998 and
1997, the approximate dollars and percentages of the revenues on a pro
forma and historic basis for the ten states representing the largest percentages
of such revenues and for all other states combined:

 Revenues by State
 (Dollars in thousands)



 Pro Forma Historic
 1998 1997 1998 1997
 
Texas $ 272,577 14.1% $ 209,382 14.1% $ 258,687 14.4% $ 114,848 18.4%
California 224,062 11.6% 163,314 11.0% 213,452 11.9% 66,933 10.7%
Florida 149,220 7.7% 121,569 8.2% 136,673 7.6% 41,928 6.7%
Pennsylvania 118,819 6.1% 87,329 5.9% 110,585 6.1% 36,878 5.9%
Michigan 107,954 5.6% 78,918 5.3% 100,623 5.6% 30,064 4.8%
New York 105,135 5.4% 95,903 6.5% 95,706 5.3% 27,761 4.5%
New Jersey 65,765 3.4% 51,131 3.4% 60,126 3.3% 17,125 2.7%
Washington 65,332 3.4% 50,229 3.4% 56,512 3.1% 128 0.0%
Arizona 61,112 3.2% 28,988 2.0% 56,391 3.1% 1,381 0.2%
Colorado 58,348 3.0% 39,451 2.7% 55,668 3.1% 32,011 5.1%
Other 623,041 32.1% 468,158 31.5% 582,895 32.4% 202,075 32.4%
 Total title revenues 1,851,365 95.6% 1,394,372 94.0% 1,727,318 95.9% 571,132 91.4%

Non-title revenues 87,301 4.4% 92,155 6.0% 72,216 4.1% 51,649 8.6%
 
Total revenues $1,938,666 100.0% $1,486,527 100.0% $1,799,534 100.0% $622,781 100.0%
 

 On February 27, 1998, the Company acquired all of the issued and
outstanding shares of capital stock of Commonwealth and Transnation. The pro
forma amounts included in the table assume that the acquisition occurred at the
beginning of 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Sales and Marketing

 The Title Insurance Market. For sales and marketing purposes, the
Company generally views residential real estate activities and commercial real
estate activities as two distinct sources of title insurance business.
Residential real estate business results from the construction, sale, resale and
refinancing of residential properties, while commercial real estate business
results from similar activities with respect to properties with a business or
commercial use. The Company has emphasized the development of its residential
real estate business during the , while maintaining a leadership position
in insuring commercial real estate transactions. Although precise data are not
available to compare the percentage of total premium revenues of the Company
derived from commercial versus residential real estate activities, approximately
80% of such revenues in 1998 resulted from policies providing coverage of $1.0
million or less (which tend to be residential) and approximately 20% of such
revenues resulted from policies providing coverage in excess of $1.0 million.

 Residential Transactions. The primary source of residential
business is from the local real estate community, such as attorneys, real estate
brokers and developers, financial institutions, mortgage brokers and independent
escrow agents. Maintenance and expansion of these referral sources is integral
to the marketing strategy for local residential business. Although
most of the residential business arises from these local
relationships, large national and regional residential mortgage originators
continue to expand their


 -7-


role in the residential real estate market. These lenders are attracted to title
insurance providers who can offer a single source for title insurance and a
broad array of services related to residential real estate transactions. The
Company has responded to this developing trend in the market by establishing
LandAmerica OneStop as a single, convenient point of contact through which
national and regional mortgage lenders can place orders for title insurance and
other services related to real estate transactions. See "Overview of the
 Operations - Ancillary Services."

 In addition, each of the principal underwriting subsidiaries
has developed brand name recognition in particular markets. Using a multiple
brand strategy in which each of these subsidiaries markets and sells under its
own name, the Company seeks to capitalize on long-standing customer
relationships and referral sources and to target different market segments with
different brand names.

 Commercial Transactions. The Company is one of the leading providers of
title insurance for commercial transactions. The National Commercial
Services ("NCS") division specializes in the sale and servicing of title
insurance for complex commercial and multi-property transactions. The Company
has 16 NCS offices located in strategic metropolitan areas throughout the
country. Each of these NCS offices markets title insurance products and services
to large commercial customers located in its region and serves the 
title insurance needs throughout the country. The Company also markets title
insurance for commercial transactions through local direct operations and
independent agents.

 In addition, the Company is one of the most strongly capitalized title
insurers in the industry, with an aggregate statutory surplus of $385.6 million
as of December 31, 1998. The financial strength of the Company is an important
factor in marketing the commercial title business capabilities,
enabling it to underwrite larger title policies and retain higher levels of risk
without purchasing reinsurance from a third party. The capital
position also supports a rating of "A" from each of Standard & Poors (financial
strength) and Duff & Phelps (claims-paying ability). These ratings are important
in competing for commercial title insurance business.

Customers

 As of December 31, 1998, no single independent agent was responsible
for more than 5% of the title insurance revenues of any of the 
principal underwriting subsidiaries. In addition, the Company is not dependent
upon any single customer or any single group of customers. The loss of any one
customer would not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

Competition

 The title insurance business is very competitive. Competition for
residential title business is based primarily on service and, to a lesser
extent, price. Service quality is based upon a number of factors, including
technological capabilities (resulting in a readily accessible, efficient and
reliable product) and the ability to respond quickly to customers. With respect
to national and regional mortgage lenders, service quality includes a large
distribution network and the ability to deliver a broad array of real estate
services quickly, efficiently and through a single point of contact. Competition
for commercial title business is based primarily on price, service, expertise in
complex transactions and the size and financial strength of the insurer. Title
insurance underwriters also compete for agents on the basis of service and
commission levels.

 The Company is one of the largest title insurance underwriters in the
United States based on title premium revenues. Its principal competitors are
other major title insurance underwriters and their agency networks. The
 principal competitors during 1998 were Chicago Title


 -8-


Insurance Company, First American Title Insurance Company, Stewart Title
Guaranty Company, Old Republic National Title Insurance Company and Fidelity
National Title Insurance Company. Of the more than one hundred title insurance
underwriting companies licensed in the United States, the top six companies
account for approximately 89.2% of the title insurance market.

 The title insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by
the insurance authorities of the states in which they do business. See
"Regulation." Within this regulatory framework, the Company competes with
respect to premium rates, coverage, risk evaluation, service and business
development.

 State regulatory authorities impose underwriting limits on title
insurers based primarily on levels of available capital and surplus. The Company
has underwriting limits that are comparable to its competitors. While such
limits may theoretically hinder the title insurance subsidiaries'
assumption of a particular large underwriting liability, in practice the Company
has established its own internal risk limits at levels substantially lower than
those allowed by state law. In addition, the Company may spread the risk of a
large underwriting liability over its three principal title underwriting
subsidiaries. Therefore, statutory capital-based risk limits are not considered
by the Company to be a significant factor in the amount or size of underwriting
it may undertake.

Regulation

 The title insurance business is regulated by state regulatory
authorities who possess broad powers relating to the granting and revoking of
licenses, and the type and amount of investments which the title
insurance subsidiaries may make. These state authorities also regulate insurance
rates, forms of policies, claims handling procedures and the form and XXof
required annual statements, and have the power to audit and examine the
financial and other records of these companies. Some states require title
insurers to own or lease title plants. A substantial portion of the assets of
the title underwriting subsidiaries consists of their portfolios of
investment securities. Each of these subsidiaries is required by the laws of its
state of domicile to maintain assets of a statutorily defined quality and
amount. See "Investment Policies" below. Under state laws, certain levels of
capital and surplus must be maintained and certain amounts of portfolio
securities must be segregated or deposited with appropriate state officials.
State regulatory policies also restrict the amount of dividends which insurance
companies may pay without prior regulatory approval.

 The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the "NAIC") has
adopted model legislation which if enacted would regulate title insurers and
agents nationally and change certain statutory reporting requirements. The
proposed legislation also would require title insurers to audit agents
periodically and require licensed agents to maintain professional liability
insurance. The Company cannot predict whether the proposed legislation or any
provision thereof will be adopted in any state. Also, the NAIC has adopted an
instruction requiring an annual certification of reserve adequacy by a qualified
actuary. Because all of the states in which the title insurance
subsidiaries are domiciled require adherence to NAIC filing procedures, each
such subsidiary, unless it qualifies for an exemption, must file an actuarial
opinion with respect to the adequacy of its reserves.

 Many state insurance regulatory laws intended primarily for the
protection of policyholders contain provisions that require advance approval by
state agencies of any change in control of an insurance company or insurance
holding company that is domiciled (or, in some cases, doing business) in that
state. Under such current laws, any future transaction that would constitute a
change in control of the Company would generally require approval by the state
insurance departments of Virginia, California, Tennessee, Texas, Ohio, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Arizona, New Jersey, New York, Florida, Alabama and Maryland. Such
requirement could have the effect of delaying or preventing certain transactions
affecting the control of the Company or


 -9-


the ownership of the Common Stock, including transactions that could
be advantageous to the shareholders of the Company.

Investment Policies

 The Company earns investment income from its portfolio of
fixed-maturity debt securities issued principally by corporations and United
States, state and local jurisdictions, as well as by United States government
agencies. Substantially all of this portfolio is located in the title
underwriting subsidiaries. At December 31, 1998, approximately 98% of the
 investment portfolio consisted of investment grade securities. The
 portfolio is managed to comply with the various state regulatory
requirements while maximizing net after-tax yield. The Company does not invest
in common stock issued by unaffiliated entities. The investment portfolio is
managed by professional investment advisors under guidelines which govern the
types of permissible investments, investment quality, maturity and duration, and
concentration of issuer. These guidelines, and the investment
strategies, are established and periodically re-examined by the Pension and
Portfolio Committee of the Board of Directors. This Committee also
reviews the performance of the investment advisors on a quarterly basis. See
Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Cyclicality and Seasonality

 The title insurance business is closely related to the overall level of
residential and commercial real estate activity, which is generally affected by
the relative strength or weakness of the United States economy. In addition,
title insurance volumes fluctuate based on the effect of changes in interest
rates on the level of real estate activity. Economic downturns, or periods of
increasing interest rates, usually have an adverse impact on real estate
activity and therefore premium and fee revenues.

 Historically, residential real estate activity has been generally
slower in the winter, when fewer families move, buy or sell homes, with
increased volumes in the spring and summer. Residential refinancing activity is
generally more uniform throughout the seasons, subject to interest rate
stability. The Company typically reports its lowest revenues in the first
quarter, with revenues increasing into the second quarter and through the third
quarter. The fourth quarter customarily may be as strong as the third quarter,
depending on the level of activity in the commercial real estate market.

 In 1998, the typical seasonality of the title insurance business was
somewhat tempered by the high level of refinancing activity, which may not
continue through 1999.

Employees

 As of December 31, 1998, the Company had 9,543 full time and 790 part
time employees. The relationship with its employees is good. Except
for 15 employees in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, no employees of the Company are
covered by any collective bargaining agreements, and the Company is not aware of
any union organizing activity relating to its employees.

Environmental Matters

 Recent title insurance policies specifically exclude any liability for
environmental risks or contamination. Older policies, while not specifically
addressing environmental risks, are not considered to provide any coverage for
such matters, and the Company does not expect any significant expenses related
to environmental claims.

 The Company, through its subsidiaries, sometimes acts as a temporary
title holder to real estate under a nominee holding agreement and sometimes
participates in holding agreements


 -10-


involving tax-deferred exchanges. The customers in such situations
generally are financially strong entities from whom it secures indemnification
for potential environmental and other claims. In other situations where the
Company might acquire title to real estate, it will generally require that an
appropriate environmental assessment be made to evaluate and avoid any potential
liability.

Business Strategy

 In February 1998, the Company significantly expanded its operations by
acquiring Commonwealth and Transnation from Reliance Group Holdings, Inc. With
the acquisition, the Company became one of the largest title insurers in the
United States. The long term objective is to strengthen its position
as a premier, low cost national provider of title insurance, information and
closing services for transactions involving the transfer and financing of real
estate. To accomplish this objective, the Company is pursuing various business
strategies designed to enhance growth and maximize profitability throughout the
real estate cycle.

 Expand Distribution Capabilities. The Company seeks to increase its
share of the title insurance market by expanding and enhancing its distribution
channels through the hiring and retention of experienced industry professionals
with strong local relationships, the opening of new direct offices in markets
with the potential for significant transaction volume, appointing new agents and
selectively acquiring or engaging in joint ventures with title insurance
companies and agencies in order to strengthen the presence in
particularly attractive markets. The Company also seeks to increase its share of
title insurance revenues through its multiple brand strategy of marketing
locally through its various title underwriting subsidiaries, which should enable
the Company to capitalize on brand identification, establish more direct offices
and agencies in designated markets and maintain and expand customer
relationships and referral sources. In the case of the acquisition of agencies
or small to medium-size underwriters, the Company reviews the or
 profitability, location, growth potential in its existing market,
claims experience and, in the case of an underwriter, the adequacy of its
reserves.

 Provide Efficient, High Quality Services. Because the Company believes
that service quality is an important factor in competing for title insurance
business, the Company seeks to provide high quality market driven services in a
cost efficient manner. In this regard, the strategy includes the
utilization of technology to further automate the title production process and
the delivery of related services and the increased development and marketing of
multiple products and services to large national and regional mortgage lenders
through the LandAmerica OneStop operation.

 Increase Commercial Title Business. To enhance its position as a
leading provider of title insurance in commercial transactions, the Company
expects to use its increased financial strength and claims-paying ability since
the acquisition of Commonwealth and Transnation to underwrite larger commercial
policies and attract a greater share of the commercial title business.

 Improve Margins and Manage Costs. The Company expects to maintain its
focus on improving the margins through revenue growth and management
of operating costs, including cost reductions through consolidation of back
office operations and the use of temporary or part-time employees to reduce the
 fixed costs, thereby enhancing the responsiveness to changes
in levels of real estate activity.


YEAR 1999, CIK 765880, ______________________________

 
 

Item 1. BUSINESS

 Health Care Property Investors, Inc. (HCPI), a Maryland corporation, was
organized in March 1985 to qualify as a real estate investment trust (REIT).
HCPI invests in health care related real estate located throughout the United
States, including long term care facilities, congregate care and assisted living
facilities, acute care and rehabilitation hospitals, medical office buildings,
physician group practice clinics and a psychiatric facility. HCPI commenced
business nearly 14 years ago, making it the second oldest REIT specializing in
health care real estate.

 In 1986, rated initial XX debt Baal and Standard &
 rated it BBB. Standard & upgraded its rating in 1987 to BBB+.
HCPI has historically maintained these ratings and currently, Standard &
 and Duff & Phelps rate its XX debt at Baal/BBB+/A , respectively.
HCPI believes that it has had an excellent track record in attracting and
retaining key employees. five executive officers have worked with HCPI
on average for 13 years. annualized return to its stockholders, assuming
reinvestment of dividends and before stockholders' income taxes, is 
approximately 18% over the period from its initial public offering in May 1985 
through December 31, 1998.

 As of December 31, 1998, gross investment in its properties,
including partnership interests and mortgage loans, was approximately $1.5
billion. portfolio of 332 properties consisted of 

 157 long term care facilities
 84 congregate care and assisted living facilities
 Eight acute care hospitals
 Six rehabilitation hospitals
 35 medical office buildings
 41 physician group practice clinics 
 One psychiatric care facility

 The average age of the properties is 17 years. As of December 31, 1998,
approximately 60% of revenue was derived from properties operated by
publicly traded health care providers.

 References herein to HCPI include Health Care Property Investors, Inc. and
its wholly owned subsidiaries and consolidated joint ventures and partnerships,
unless the context otherwise requires.

THE PROPERTIES

 As of December 31, 1998, HCPI had an ownership interest in 307 properties
located in 40 states. HCPI leased or subleased 269 of its owned properties
pursuant to long term triple net leases to 84 health care providers. Under a
triple net lease, in addition to the rent obligation, the lessee is responsible
for all operating expenses of the property such as utilities, property taxes,
insurance and repairs and maintenance. The lessees include the following or
their affiliates 

 HealthSouth Corporation ( HealthSouth )
 Vencor, Inc. ( Vencor )
 Emeritus Corporation ( Emeritus )
 Beverly Enterprises, Inc. ( Beverly )
 Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. ( Columbia )
 Centennial Healthcare Corp. ( Centennial )
 Tenet Healthcare Corporation ( Tenet )

 The remaining 38 owned properties are medical office buildings and clinics
with gross or modified gross leases with multiple tenants. Under gross or
modified gross leases, HCPI may be responsible for property taxes, repairs and
maintenance and/or insurance on those properties. 

HCPI also holds mortgage loans on 25 properties that are owned and operated 
by 12 health care providers including Beverly, Columbia and Centennial. 
No single lessee or operator accounts for more than 7% of revenue for
the year ended December 31, 1998.

 Of the 332 health care facilities in which HCPI had an investment as of
December 31, 1998, HCPI directly owns 248 facilities including 

 108 long term care facilities
 74 congregate care and assisted living centers
 41 physician group practice clinics
 20 medical office buildings
 Three acute care hospitals
 Two rehabilitation hospitals

 HCPI has provided mortgage loans in the amount of $155,918,000 on 25
properties, including 15 long term care facilities, four congregate care and
assisted living centers, three acute care hospitals and three medical office
buildings. At December 31, 1998, the remaining balance on these loans totaled
$139,432,000.

 At December 31, 1998, HCPI also had varying percentage interests in several
limited liability companies and partnerships which together own 59 facilities,
as further discussed below under Investments in Consolidated and Non 
Consolidated Joint Ventures. 

 The following is a summary of properties grouped by type of facility
and equity interest as of December 31, 1998 



 Equity Number Number Total
 Interest of of Beds/ Investments Annualized
Facility Type Percentage Facilities Units Rents/Interest 
 (Dollar
Amounts in thousands)
 

Long Term Care Facilities 100% 123 15,416 $ 438,650 $ 58,902
Long Term Care Facilities 77 80 34 3,888 98,781 13,347 
 157 19,304 537,431 72,249 
Acute Care Hospitals 100 6 427 72,868 7,189
Acute Care Hospitals 77 2 356 42,807 7,744 
 8 783 115,675 14,933 
Rehabilitation Hospitals 100 2 168 27,385 4,014
Rehabilitation Hospitals 90 97 4 307 47,493 8,029 
 6 475 74,878 12,043 
Congregate Care & Assisted Living Centers 100 78 6,234 365,438 32,664
Congregate Care & Assisted Living Centers 50 4 511 29,485 4,380
Congregate Care & Assisted Living Centers 45 2 200 1,033 50 
 84 6,945 395,956 37,094 
Medical Office Buildings 100 23 154,637 16,052
Medical Office Buildings 90 12 87,650 8,082
Physician Group Practice Clinics 100 41 171,427 17,455
Psychiatric Facility 77 1 108 3,461 288 
 Totals 332 27,615 $1,541,115 $ 178,196
 =


 In order to indicate facility size, congregate care and assisted
 living centers are stated in units (studio or one room apartments) 
 all other facilities are stated in beds, except the medical office
 buildings and the physician group practice clinics for which square
 footage is provided in footnotes 3 and 4.
 Includes partnership investments, and incorporates all partners'
 assets and construction commitments.
 The medical office buildings encompass approximately 2,038,000 square
 feet.
 The physician group practice clinics encompass approximately 1,325,000
 square feet.
 Represents investment, net of partners' interests.
 
 The following paragraphs describe each type of property. The amount
of Medicare reimbursement allowed for services received at long term facilities,
long term acute care hospitals and rehabilitation hospitals has been limited by
the Prospective Payment System, as further described below under Government
Regulation. 
 
 Long Term Care Facilities. HCPI has invested in 157 long term care
facilities. Various health care providers operate these facilities. Long term
care facilities offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for
people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at
acute care hospitals. Many long term care facilities have experienced
significant growth in ancillary revenues and demand for subacute care services
over the past several years. Ancillary revenues and revenue from subacute care
services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board
and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and IV therapy, wound
care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy as well as
sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. Certain long term care
facilities provide some of the foregoing services on an out patient basis. Long 
term care facilities are designed to supplement hospital care and many have
transfer agreements with one or more acute care hospitals. These facilities
depend to some degree upon referrals from practicing physicians and hospitals.
Long term care services are paid for either by private sources, or through the
federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs.
 
 Long term care facilities generally provide patients with accommodations,
complete medical and nursing care, and rehabilitation services including speech,
physical and occupational therapy. As a part of the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act ( OBRA ) of 1981, Congress established a waiver program under
Medicaid to offer an alternative to institutional long term care services. The
provisions of OBRA and the subsequent OBRA Acts of 1987 and 1990 allow states,
with federal approval, greater flexibility in program design as a means of
developing cost effective alternatives to delivering services traditionally
provided in the long term care setting. This is a contributing factor to
the recent increase in the number of assisted living facilities, which may 
adversely affect some long term care facilities as some individuals 
choose the residential environment and lower cost delivery system
provided in the assisted living setting.
 
 Congregate Care and Assisted Living Centers. HCPI has investments in 84
congregate care and assisted living centers. Congregate care centers typically
offer studio, one bedroom and two bedroom apartments on a month to month basis
primarily to individuals who are over 75 years of age. Residents, who must be
ambulatory, are provided meals and eat in a central dining area they may also
be assisted with some daily living activities. These centers offer programs and
services that allow residents certain conveniences and make it possible for them
to live independently staff is also available when residents need assistance
and for group activities.
 
 Assisted living centers serve elderly persons who require more assistance
with daily living activities than congregate care residents, but who do not
require the constant supervision nursing homes provide. Services include
personal supervision and assistance with eating, bathing, grooming and
administering medication. Assisted living centers typically contain larger
common areas for dining, group activities and relaxation to encourage social
interaction. Residents typically rent studio and one bedroom units on a
month to month basis.
 
 Charges for room and board and other services in both congregate care and
assisted living centers are generally paid from private sources.
 
 Acute Care Hospitals. HCPI has an interest in six general acute care
hospitals and two long term acute care hospitals. Acute care hospitals
generally offer a wide range of services such as general and specialty surgery,
intensive care units, clinical laboratories, physical and respiratory therapy,
nuclear medicine, magnetic resonance imaging, neonatal and pediatric care units,
outpatient units and emergency departments, among others. Long term acute care
hospitals provide for patients who require a stay of at least 25 days.
Services are paid for by private sources, third party payors (e.g. insurance,
HMOs), or through the federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs. Medicare
provides reimbursement incentives to traditional general acute care hospitals to
minimize inpatient length of stay.
 
 Rehabilitation Hospitals. HCPI has investments in six rehabilitation
hospitals. These hospitals provide inpatient and outpatient care for patients
who have sustained traumatic injuries or illnesses, such as spinal cord
injuries, strokes, head injuries, orthopedic problems, work related disabilities
and neurological diseases, as well as treatment for amputees and patients with
severe arthritis. Rehabilitation programs encompass physical, occupational,
speech and inhalation therapies, rehabilitative nursing and other specialties.
Services are paid for by the patient or the family, third party payors
(e.g. insurance, HMOs), or through the federal Medicare program.
 
 Medical Office Buildings. HCPI has investments in 35 medical office
buildings. These buildings are generally located adjacent to, or a short
distance from, acute care hospitals. Medical office buildings contain
physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies,
hospital ancillary service space and day surgery operating rooms. Medical office
buildings require more extensive plumbing, electrical, heating and cooling
capabilities than commercial office buildings for sinks, brighter lights and
special equipment physicians typically use. Twelve of owned medical
office buildings are master leased on a triple net basis to lessees which then
sublease office space to physicians or other medical practitioners. During 1997
and 1998, HCPI purchased 23 multi tenant medical office buildings which are
leased under gross or modified gross leases under which HCPI is responsible for
certain operating expenses. Third party property management companies manage
the multi tenant facilities on behalf of HCPI.
 
 Physician Group Practice Clinics. HCPI has investments in 41 physician
group practice clinic facilities, which are leased to 15 different operators.
These clinics generally provide a broad range of medical services through
organized physician groups representing various medical specialties. The clinic
facilities are generally leased to a single lessee under a triple net or
modified gross lease.
 
 Psychiatric Facility. HCPI has an investment in one psychiatric facility
which offers comprehensive, multidisciplinary adult and adolescent care.
 
COMPETITION
 
 HCPI competes for real estate acquisitions and financings with health care
providers, other health care related real estate investment trusts, real estate
partnerships, real estate lenders, and other investors.
 
 properties are subject to competition from the properties of other
health care providers. Certain of these other operators have capital resources
substantially in excess of some of the operators of facilities. In
addition, the extent to which the properties are utilized depends upon several
factors, including the number of physicians using the health care facilities or
referring patients there, competitive systems of health care delivery and the
size and composition of the population in the surrounding area. Private,
federal and state payment programs and the effect of other laws and regulations
may also have a significant effect on the utilization of the properties.
Virtually all of the properties operate in a competitive environment and
patients and referral sources, including physicians, may change their
preferences for a health care facility from time to time.
 
 The following table shows, with respect to each property, the location by
state, the number of beds/units, recent occupancy levels, patient revenue mix,
annualized rents and interest and information regarding remaining lease terms, 
by property type.
 


 Average
 Number Private
 Number of Beds/ Average Patient Annualized Average
 of Units Occupancy Revenue Rents/ Remaining
Facility Location Facilities, Interest Term 
 (Thousands) (Years)
 
Long Term Care Facilities
Alabama 1 174 91% 37% $ 879 4
Arkansas 9 866 75 47 2,444 10
Arizona 1 112 83 100 427 15
California 18 1,816 86 51 6,021 13
Colorado 5 782 83 53 4,286 14
Connecticut 1 121 97 38 632 1
Florida 11 1,267 90 49 6,835 7
Georgia 1 60 91 26 182 22
Idaho 1 119 66 53 508 15
Illinois 1 128 85 59 421 7
Indiana 22 3,074 78 50 10,898 10
Iowa 1 201 90 38 859 15
Kansas 3 323 82 62 1,588 11
Kentucky 1 100 96 49 410 3
Louisiana 3 355 82 31 1,312 15
Maryland 3 438 87 37 1,825 19
Massachusetts 5 615 93 39 2,606 4
Michigan 4 406 84 56 1,420 5
Minnesota 1 94 71 58 116 11
Mississippi 1 120 100 26 361 3
Missouri 1 153 96 42 731 3
Montana 1 80 76 38 322 
New Mexico 1 102 89 31 307 4
North Carolina 9 1,056 83 56 4,310 9
Ohio 6 876 88 52 3,827 2
Oklahoma 12 1,395 70 68 4,901 16
Oregon 1 110 81 42 277 9
Pennsylvania 1 89 88 36 353 4
South Carolina 2 68 90 100 484 12
TennesSee 10 1,754 95 41 5,220 3
Texas 10 1,113 56 35 2,676 9
Utah 1 120 76 53 455 15
Washington 1 84 66 58 284 
Wisconsin 8 1,133 82 47 4,072 7 
 Sub Total 157 19,304 82 49 72,249 9 
Acute Care Hospitals
Arizona 1 21 43 100 388 14
California 1 182 53 92 3,868 5
Louisiana 2 325 33 94 5,166 4
New Mexico 1 56 26
Texas 3 199 48 69 5,511 19 
 Sub Total 8 783 39 81 14,933 14 
Rehabilitation Facilities
Arizona 1 60 59 100 1,764 
Arkansas 1 60 78 100 1,880 2
Colorado 1 64 40 100 1,575 2
Florida 1 108 98 100 2,250 13
Kansas 1 75 70 100 2,638 
Texas 1 108 68 100 1,936 4 
 Sub Total 6 475 72 100 12,043 5 




 Average
 Number Private
 Number of Beds/ Average Patient Annualized Average
 of Units Occupancy Revenue Rents/ Remaining
Facility Location Facilities, Interest Term 
 (Thousands) (Years)
 
Physician Group Practice Clinics 
Arkansas 1 100 $ 2,560 11
California 2 100 4,229 11
Colorado 1 100 316 9
Florida 11 100 2,624 7
Georgia 3 100 970 9
North Carolina 4 100 1,140 6
Ohio 1 100 
Oklahoma 4 100 529 7
TennesSee 4 100 1,607 11
Texas 9 100 3,229 7
Virginia 1 100 251 10 
Sub Total 41 100 17,455 9 
Psychiatric Facility Georgia 1 108 14 100 288 9 
Congregate Care and Assisted Living Centers
Alabama 1 84 15
Arkansas 1 17 92 100 27 11
Arizona 1 98 64 100 496 9
California 11 999 62 93 5,845 15
Delaware 1 52 74 100 382 9
Florida 10 738 55 88 2,316 12
Georgia 1 40 90 100 232 12
Idaho 1 117 39 100 770 14
Kansas 2 194 33 57 262 12
Louisiana 5 449 54 100 3,246 9
Maryland 2 140 44 61 860 12
Michigan 2 200 50 50 12
Missouri 1 73 100 432 3
Nebraska 1 73 31 100 518 10
New Jersey 4 279 57 70 1,281 12
New Mexico 2 285 63 100 1,909 12
New York 1 75 96 100 429 9
North Carolina 3 230 92 100 1,320 11
Ohio 1 156 87 100 800 13
Oregon 1 58 92 90 381 10
Pennsylvania 3 232 82 100 1,751 10
Rhode Island 1 172 99 100 1,580 2
South Carolina 9 582 55 66 2,457 13
Texas 16 1,373 72 93 8,443 12
Virginia 1 90 44 100 616 15
Washington 2 139 93 86 691 9 
Sub Total 84 6,945 62 87 37,094 11 
Medical Office Buildings 
Alaska 1 100 726 2
California 7 100 6,148 3
Indiana 13 100 6,652 6
Minnesota 2 100 2,218 8
North Dakota 1 100 649 7
New York 1 100 2,090 5
Texas 9 100 5,083 8
Utah 1 100 568 11 
Sub Total 35 100 24,134 6 
TOTAL FACILITIES 332 27,615 76% 61% $178,196 9




 Congregate care and assisted living centers are measured in units. 
 Physician group practice clinics and medical office buildings are measured
 in square feet and encompass approximately 1,325,000 and 2,038,000 square 
 feet, respectively. All other facilities are measured by bed count.
 All revenues, including Medicare revenues but excluding Medicaid revenues,
 are included in Private Patient revenues.
 Includes facilities under construction, except for average occupancy data.
 Physician group practice clinics and medical office building lessees have 
 use of the leased facilities for their own use or for the use of sub 
 lessees.
 This information is derived from information provided by lessees.

RELATIONSHIP WITH MAJOR OPERATORS

 At December 31, 1998, HCPI had investments in 332 properties located in 42
states, which are operated by 84 health care operators. In addition, 188 tenants
conduct business in the multi tenant buildings. Listed below are major
operators, the number of facilities operated by such operators, and the 
annualized revenue and the percentage of annualized revenue 
derived from such operators.



 Percentage
 Number of Annualized of Annualized
Operators Facilities Revenue Revenue 
 
HealthSouth 6 $12,043,000 7%
Vencor 39 11,648,000 7
Emeritus 23 11,227,000 6
Beverly 28 10,685,000 6
Columbia 12 8,083,000 5
Centennial 19 8,241,000 5
Tenet 2 7,744,000 4



 Certain of the listed facilities have been subleased to other operators
with the original lessee remaining liable on the leases. The revenue applicable
to these sublessees is not included in the annualized revenue percentages
above. The percentage of annualized revenue on these subleased facilities was
4% for the year ended December 31, 1998. As discussed in more detail below, rent
obligations under Vencor leases are guaranteed through the primary term by 
Tenet.

 All of these operators listed above are subject to the informational filing
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and accordingly
file periodic financial statements on Form 10 K and Form 10 Q with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. HCPI obtained all of the financial and 
other information relating to these operators from their public reports.

 The following table summarizes major operators' assets,
stockholders' equity, interim revenue and net income (or net loss) from
continuing operations as of or for the nine months ended September 30, 1998.
All of the following information is based upon such operators' public reports.

(Amounts in millions)

 Net Income/
 Stockholders' (Loss) from
Operators Assets Equity (Deficit) Revenue Operations 
 
HealthSouth $ 7,057 $ 3,637 $ 2,898 $ 232
Vencor* 2,245 913 2,320 33
Emeritus 198 (38) 111 (23)
Beverly 2,199 869 2,116 61
Columbia 20,008 7,705 14,261 555
Centennial 273 115 265 1
Tenet** 13,629 3,864 5,116 262


 * Includes the combined results of the predecessor company for all 
periods prior to May 1, 1998.

 ** The information described above for Tenet is for the six months ended
November 30, 1998 or as of November 30, 1998, as applicable.
 
 The following table summarizes major operators' assets,
stockholders' equity, annualized revenue and net income (or net loss) from
continuing operations as of or for the year ended December 31, 1997.
 
 (Amounts in millions)


 Net Income/
 Stockholders' (Loss) from
Operators Assets Equity Revenue Operations 
 
HealthSouth $ 5,401 $ 3,157 $ 3,017 $ 331
Vencor* 3,335 905 3,116 135
Emeritus 229 1 118 (28)
Beverly 2,073 863 3,230 59
Columbia 22,002 7,250 18,819 182
Centennial 244 113 304 10
Tenet** 12,833 3,558 9,895 378




 * Includes the combined results of the predecessor company for all
periods prior to May 1, 1998.

 ** The information described above for Tenet is for the fiscal year ended
May 31, 1998 or as of May 31, 1998, as applicable.

 The current equity market capitalization for each of the operators listed 
above, based on the closing price of their common stock on March 24, 1999 as 
reported in the Wall Street Journal, and based on the number of outstanding 
shares of their common stock as reported in their most recent public filing 
available is as follows HealthSouth, $4.2 billion Vencor, $91.6 million 
Emeritus, $117.9 million Beverly, $524.7 million Columbia, $12.1 billion 
Centennial, $184.1 million and Tenet, $5.8 billion.
 
 Certain additional information about these operators is provided below 

 On May 1, 1998, Vencor completed a spin off transaction. As a result, it
became two publicly held entities Ventas, Inc. ( Ventas ), a real estate
company which intends to qualify as a REIT, and Vencor, a health care company
which at December 31, 1998 leased 39 of properties. As of December 31,
1998, 3% of annualized revenue on facilities leased to Vencor related to 
facilities sub leased and operated by other providers. Both Ventas and 
Vencor are responsible for payments due under the Vencor leases, including 
subleased facilities. 

 According to a recent press release issued by Vencor, Vencor expects 
that its earnings for the fourth quarter of 1998 will be substantially lower 
than for the third quarter of 1998. Vencor reported a loss of $.02 per 
share for the third quarter ended September 30, 1998. In addition,
Vencor announced that it recently obtained a waiver of its net worth covenant 
through March 31, 1999 from the lenders under its bank credit facility. Vencor
accounts for 6.5% of annualized revenue. XX subordinated 
debt is rated CCC and B2 by Standard & and, respectively, and 
is currently on credit watch with negative implications by Standard & .

 Tenet is one of the largest health care services companies,
providing a broad range of services through the ownership and management of
health care facilities. Tenet has historically guaranteed leases.
However, during 1997 HCPI reached an agreement with Tenet whereby Tenet agreed
to forbear or waive some renewal and purchase options and related rights of
first refusal on facilities leased to Vencor. As part of that same agreement,
Tenet will guarantee the rent payments on the 36 Vencor leases that have not
reached the end of their base term as of December 31, 1998. All of those
remaining guaranteed leases expire within three years. During the year ended
December 31, 1998, 14 previously guaranteed Vencor leases expired. Eleven of
the fourteen were leased to third parties and three were retained by Vencor but
are no longer guaranteed by Tenet.

 According to published reports, Columbia has been the subject of various
significant government investigations regarding its compliance with Medicare,
Medicaid and other programs. The following is derived from public reports
distributed by Columbia It is too early to predict the outcome or effect
that the ongoing investigations, the initiation of additional investigations,
if any, and the related media coverage will have on financial
condition or results of operations in future periods. Were Columbia to be
found in violation of federal or state laws relating to Medicare, Medicaid
or similar programs, Columbia could be subject to substantial monetary
fines, civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in the
Medicare and Medicaid programs. Any such sanctions could have a material 
adverse effect on financial position and results of operations. 
 XX debt ratings remain investment grade, but have recently 
been reduced by to Ba2 and by Standard & to BBB. In 
February 1998, further downgraded commercial paper
rating to NP (not prime) from P 3.

 Recently there has been publicity about the reimbursement of nursing home
companies being impacted by adoption of the Prospective Payment
System. The ratings of the following operators of HCPI facilities have been
put on credit watch with negative implications by Standard & (S&P), the
bond rating agency, because of the impact of the implementation of the 
Prospective Payment System. The indicated ratings are for the subordinated
debt issues as of March 22, 1999.


 
 Percentage
 S&P of Annualized
Operators Rating Rating Revenue 
 
Genesis Health Ventures ( Genesis ) B Ba3 2.4%
Integrated Health Services, Inc. ( IHS ) CCC Ba3 2.1%
Sun Healthcare Group ( Sun ) CCC Ba3 2.0%
Mariner Post Acute Network, Inc. ( Mariner ) CCC B1 0.6%


 These operators are current on all of their rental obligations to HCPI.
Since all these companies are publicly traded, interested readers are directed
to the periodic financial statements filed by such companies on Form 10 K and
Form 10 Q with the SEC.

 
LEASES AND LOANS
 
 The initial base rental rates of the leases entered into by HCPI during 
the three years ended December 31, 1998 have generally ranged from 9% to 14%
per annum of the acquisition price of the related property. Initial interest
rates on the loans entered into by HCPI during the three years ended December
31, 1998 have generally ranged from 9% to 12% per annum. Rental rates vary by
lease, taking into consideration many factors, such as Credit worthiness of the lessee, Operating performance of the facility, Interest rates at the beginning of the lease, and Location, type and physical condition of the facility.
 
 Most of the leases provide for additional rents that are based upon a
percentage of increased revenue over specific base period revenue of the leased
properties. Some leases and loans have annual fixed rent or interest rate
increases while others have rent increases based on inflation indices or other
factors. Additional Rental and Interest Income received for the years ended
December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 were $22.0 million, $21.1 million and $20.9
million, respectively. (See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
this Annual Report on Form 10 K.)
 
 Each lessee that has a triple net lease is responsible thereunder, in
addition to the minimum and additional rents, for all additional charges,
including charges related to non payment or late payment of rent, taxes and
assessments, governmental charges with respect to the leased property and
utility and other charges incurred with the operation of the leased property. 
Each triple net lessee is required, at its expense, to maintain its leased
property in good order and repair. HCPI is not required to repair, rebuild or
maintain the properties.
 
 Each lessee with a gross or modified gross lease is also responsible for
minimum and additional rents, but may not be responsible for all operating
expenses. Under gross or modified gross leases, HCPI may be responsible for 
property taxes, repairs and maintenance and/or insurance on those properties.

 The primary or fixed terms of the triple net and modified gross leases
generally range from 10 to 15 years, and generally have one or more five year
(or longer) renewal options. The average remaining base lease term on the
triple net and modified gross leases is approximately ten years and the average
remaining term on the loans is approximately 16 years. The primary term of the
gross leases to multiple tenants in the medical office buildings range from one
to ten years, with an average of five years remaining on those leases.
Obligations under the leases, in most cases, have corporate parent or
shareholder guarantees. Irrevocable letters of credit from various financial
institutions back 111 leases and loans covering 14 facilities which cover from
three to 18 months of lease or loan payments. HCPI requires the lessees and
mortgagors to renew such letters of credit during the lease or loan term in
amounts that may change based upon the passage of time, improved operating cash
flows or improved credit ratings.
 
 HCPI believes that the credit enhancements discussed above provide it with
significant protection for its investment portfolio. HCPI is currently
receiving rents and interest in a timely manner from substantially all lessees
and mortgagors as provided under the terms of the leases or loans. Based upon
information provided to HCPI by lessees or mortgagors, certain facilities that
are current with respect to monthly rents and mortgage payments are presently
underperforming financially. Individual facilities may underperform as a result
of inadequate Medicaid reimbursement, low occupancy, less than optimal patient
mix, excessive operating costs, other operational issues or capital needs.
Management believes that, even if these facilities remain at current levels of
performance, the lease and loan provisions contain sufficient security to assure
that material rental and mortgage obligations will continue to be met for the
remainder of the lease or loan terms. In the future it is expected that some 
lessees may choose not to renew their leases on certain properties
at existing rental rates (see Table below).
 
 Many lessees have the right of first refusal to purchase the properties
during the lease term many leases provide one or more five year (or longer)
renewal options at existing lease rates and continuing additional rent formulas,
although certain leases provide for lease renewals at fair market value.
Certain lessees also have options to purchase the properties, generally for fair
market value, and generally at the expiration of the primary lease term and/or
any renewal term under the lease. If options are exercised, many such
provisions require lessees to purchase or renew several facilities together,
precluding the possibility of lessees purchasing or renewing only those
facilities with the best financial outcomes. Fifty nine properties are not
subject to purchase options until 2008 or later, and an additional 219 leased
properties do not have any purchase options.
 
 A table recapping lease expirations, mortgage maturities, properties
subject to purchase options and financial underperformance follows 



 Current Annualized Revenues of 
 Properties Subject to
 Lease Expirations,
 Purchase Options and Properties Subject Possible Revenue
 Mortgage Maturities to Purchase Options (Loss)/Gains at Lease
 Year Expiration, 
 (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) % Amount 
 
 

 1999 $7,383 $ 1,385 (0.6) $ (1,000)
 2000 12,040 6,625 (0.9) (1,700)
 2001 18,560 10,599 0.3 500
 2002 11,838 1,511 0.1 200
 2003 6,986 4,246 0.1 300
 Thereafter 121,389 53,127 
 $ 178,196 $ 77,493 (1.0) $ (1,700)
 = = = =



 This column includes the revenue impact by year and the total annualized
 rental and interest income associated with the properties subject to
 lessees' renewal options and/or purchase options and mortgage maturities.
 
 This column includes the revenue impact by year and the total annualized
 rental and interest income associated with properties subject to purchase
 options. If a purchase option is exercisable at more than one date, the
 convention used in the table is to show the revenue subject to the purchase
 option at the earliest possible purchase date. Although certain purchase
 option periods commenced in earlier years, lessees have not exercised their
 purchase options as of this time. The total for this column is a
 component (subset) of column, the total current annualized revenue of
 properties subject to lease expirations, purchase options and mortgage
 maturities ($178,196,000).
 
 Based on current market conditions, management estimates that there could
 be a revenue loss (compared to current rental rates) upon the expiration of
 the current term of the leases in the percentages and amounts shown in the
 table for lease expirations. Total revenue of HCPI has grown at a compound
 annual growth rate of 13.0% in the past five years. The percentages are
 computed by taking the possible revenue loss as a percentage of 1998 total
 annualized revenue.
 
 HCPI estimates that in addition to the possible reduction in income from
 lease expirations, it may also have a reduction of approximately $200,000
 in 1999 due to the reinvestment of cash received from mortgage maturities
 and exercises of purchase options. This amount is calculated based on
 current interest rate levels and is not estimated in years subsequent to
 1999 due to the unpredictable levels of interest rates and their impact on
 lessees' purchase options and mortgage maturities.
 
 There are numerous factors that could have an impact on lease renewals or
purchase options, including the financial strength of the lessee, expected
facility operating performance, the relative level of interest rates and
individual lessee financing options. Based upon management expectations of
 continued growth, the facilities subject to renewal and/or purchase
options and mortgage maturities and any possible rent loss therefrom should
represent a small percentage of revenue in the year of renewal or purchase.

 Each lessee, at its expense, may make non capital additions, modifications
or improvements to its leased property. All such alterations, replacements and
improvements must comply with the terms and provisions of the lease, and become
the property of HCPI or its affiliates upon termination of the lease. Each
lease requires the lessee to maintain adequate insurance on the leased property,
naming HCPI or its affiliates and any mortgagees as additional insureds. In
certain circumstances, the lessee may self insure pursuant to a prudent program
of self insurance if the lessee or the guarantor of its lease obligations has
substantial net worth. In addition, each lease requires the lessee to indemnify
HCPI or its affiliates against certain liabilities in connection with the leased
property.


DEVELOPMENT OF FACILITIES

 Since 1987, HCPI has committed to the development of 54 facilities
(representing an aggregate investment of approximately $407 million), including 

 Five rehabilitation hospitals
 33 congregate care and assisted living facilities
 Five long term care facilities
 Four acute care hospitals 
 Seven medical office buildings

 As of December 31, 1998, costs of approximately $344 million have been
funded and 40 facilities have been completed. The completed facilities
comprise 

 Five rehabilitation hospitals
 21 congregate care and assisted living facilities
 Five long term care facilities
 Two acute care hospitals
 Seven medical office buildings

 The 14 remaining development projects are scheduled for completion in 1999
and 2000. Simultaneously with the commencement of each of these development
programs and prior to funding, HCPI enters into a lease agreement with the
developer/operator. The base rent under the lease is generally established at a
rate equivalent to a specified number of basis points over the yield on the 10
year United States Treasury note at the inception of the lease agreement.

 The build to suit development program generally includes a variety of 
additional forms of credit enhancement and collateral beyond those provided by 
the leases. During the development period, HCPI generally requires additional
security and collateral in the form of more than one of the following 

 Irrevocable letters of credit from financial institutions 
 Payment and performance bonds and
 Completion guarantees by either one or a combination of the 
 parent entity, other affiliates or one or more of the individual principals
 who control the developer.

 In addition, prior to any advance of funds by HCPI under the development
agreement, the developer must provide 

 Satisfactory evidence in the form of an endorsement to title
 insurance policy that no intervening liens have been placed on the property
 since the date of previous advance 
 A certificate executed by the project architect that indicates that all
 construction work completed on the project conforms with the requirements
 of the applicable plans and specifications 
 A certificate executed by the general contractor that all work requested
 for reimbursement has been completed and
 Satisfactory evidence that the funds remaining unadvanced are sufficient
 for the payment of all costs necessary for the completion of the project in
 accordance with the terms and provisions of the agreement.

 As a further safeguard during the development period, HCPI generally will
retain 10% of construction funds incurred until it has received satisfactory
evidence that the project will be fully completed in accordance with the
applicable plans and specifications. HCPI also monitors the progress of the
development of each project and the accuracy of the draw requests by
having its own in house inspector perform regular on site inspections of the
project prior to the release of any requested funds.

INVESTMENTS IN CONSOLIDATED AND NON CONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURES

 At December 31, 1998, HCPI had varying percentage interests in several
limited liability companies and partnerships which together own 59 facilities,
as further discussed below 

 A 77% interest in a partnership (Health Care Property Partners) which owns
 two acute care hospitals, one psychiatric facility and 20 long term care
 facilities.
 Interests of between 90% and 97% in four partnerships (HCPI/San Antonio
 Ltd. Partnership, HCPI/Colorado Springs Ltd. Partnership, HCPI/Little Rock
 Ltd. Partnership, HCPI/Kansas Ltd. Partnership), each of which owns a
 comprehensive rehabilitation hospital.
 A 90% interest in a limited liability company (Cambridge Medical Property,
 LLC) which owns five medical office buildings.
 A 90% interest in a limited liability company (HCPI Indiana, LLC) which
 owns seven medical office buildings.
 An 80% interest in six limited liability companies (Vista Cal Associates,
 LLC Oak City Cal Associates, LLC Statesboro Associates, LLC Ft. Worth 
 Cal Associates, LLC Tucson Cal Associates, LLC Perris Cal Associates,
 LLC) each of which owns a long term care facility.
 An 80% interest in two limited liability companies (Ponca Cal Associates,
 LLC, Louisiana Two Associates, LLC) each of which owns two long term care
 facilities.
 An 80% interest in one limited liability company (Oklahoma Four Associates,
 LLC) which owns four long term care facilities.
 A 50% interest in four partnerships (HCPI/Austin Investors, HCPI/Baton
 Rouge Investors, HCPI/Rhode Island Investors and HCPI/Kenner Investors),
 each of which owns a congregate care facility.
 A 45% interest in two limited liability companies (Seminole Shores Living
 Center, LLC and Edgewood Assisted Living Center, LLC) each formed to own a
 congregate care facility.

FUTURE ACQUISITIONS

 HCPI anticipates acquiring additional health care related facilities and
leasing them to health care operators or investing in mortgages secured by
health care facilities.

TAXATION OF HCPI

 Management of HCPI believes that HCPI has operated in such a manner as to
qualify for taxation as a real estate investment trust ( REIT ) under Sections
856 to 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code ),
commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1985, and HCPI intends to
continue to operate in such a manner. No assurance can be given that it has
operated or will be able to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or
to remain so qualified. This summary is qualified in its entirety by the
applicable Code provisions, rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and
administrative and judicial interpretation thereof.

 If HCPI qualifies for taxation as a REIT, it will generally not be subject
to Federal corporate income taxes on its net income that is currently
distributed to stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the double taxation (i.e, at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally
results from investment in a corporation. However, HCPI will continue to be
subject to federal income tax under certain circumstances.

 The Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association which is
managed by one or more trustees or directors (ii) the beneficial ownership of
which is evidenced by transferable shares, or by transferable certificates of
beneficial interest (iii) which would be taxable, but for Sections 856 through
860 of the Code, as a domestic corporation (iv) which is neither a financial
institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code 
 the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons (vi)
during the last half of each taxable year not more than 50% in value of the
outstanding stock of which is owned, actually or constructively, by five or
fewer individuals and (vii) which meets certain other tests, described below,
regarding the amount of its distributions and the nature of its income and
assets. The Code provides that conditions to (iv), inclusive, must be met
during the entire taxable year and that condition must be met during at
least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of
a taxable year of less than 12 months.

 There presently are two gross income requirements and, with respect to
taxable years of HCPI beginning before August 6, 1997, there was a third gross
income requirement. First, at least 75% of gross income (excluding gross
income from Prohibited Transactions as defined below) for each taxable year must
be derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or
mortgages on real property or from certain types of temporary investment income.
Second, at least 95% of gross income (excluding gross income from
Prohibited Transactions) for each taxable year must be derived from income that
qualifies under the 75% test and all other dividends, interest and gain from the
sale or other disposition of stock or securities. Third, for taxable years of
HCPI beginning before August 6, 1997, short term gains from the sale or other
disposition of stock or securities, gains from Prohibited Transactions and gains
on the sale or other disposition of real property held for less than four years
(apart from involuntary conversions and sales of foreclosure property) must
represent less than 30% of gross income for each such taxable year. A
Prohibited Transaction is a sale or other disposition of property (other than
foreclosure property) held for sale to customers in the ordinary course .

 HCPI, at the close of each quarter of its taxable year, must also satisfy
three tests relating to the nature of its assets. First, at least 75% of the
value of total assets must be represented by real estate assets
(including stock or debt instruments held for not more than one year, purchased
with the proceeds of a stock offering or long term (more than five years) public
debt offering of HCPI), cash, cash items and government securities. Second, not
more than 25% of total assets may be represented by securities other than
those in the 75% asset class. Third, of the investments included in the 25%
asset class, the value of any one securities owned by HCPI may not
exceed 5% of the value of total assets and HCPI may not own more than 10%
of any one outstanding voting securities.

 HCPI owns interests in various partnerships and limited liability
companies. In the case of a REIT that is a partner in a partnership or a member
of a limited liability company that is treated as a partnership under the Code,
Treasury Regulations provide that for purposes of the REIT income and asset
tests, the REIT will be deemed to own its proportionate share of the assets of
the partnership or limited liability company and will be deemed to be entitled
to the income of the partnership or limited liability company attributable to
such share. The ownership of an interest in a partnership or limited liability
company by a REIT may involve special tax risks, including the challenge by the
Internal Revenue Service (the Service ) of the allocations of income and
expense items of the partnership or limited liability company, which would
affect the computation of taxable income of the REIT, and the status of the
partnership or limited liability company as a partnership (as opposed to an
association taxable as a corporation) for federal income tax purposes. HCPI
also owns interests in a number of subsidiaries which are intended to be treated
as qualified real estate investment trust subsidiaries (each a QRS ). The Code
provides that such subsidiaries will be ignored for federal income tax purposes
and all assets, liabilities and items of income, deduction and credit of such
subsidiaries will be treated as assets, liabilities and such items of HCPI. If
any partnership, limited liability company, or subsidiary in which HCPI owns an
interest were treated as a regular corporation (and not as a partnership or QRS)
for federal income tax purposes, HCPI would likely fail to satisfy the REIT
asset tests described above and would therefore fail to qualify as a REIT. HCPI
believes that each of the partnerships, limited liability companies, and
subsidiaries in which it owns an interest will be treated for tax purposes as a
partnership (in the case of a partnership or limited liability company) or QRS,
respectively, although no assurance can be given that the Service will not
successfully challenge the status of any such organization.

 HCPI, in order to qualify as a REIT, is required to distribute dividends
(other than capital gain dividends) to its stockholders in an amount at least
equal to the sum of 95% of real estate investment trust taxable
income (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and net
capital gain) and (ii) 95% of the net income, if any (after tax), from
foreclosure property, minus the sum of certain items of non cash income.
Such distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in
the following taxable year if declared before HCPI timely files its tax return
for such year, if paid on or before the first regular dividend payment date
after such declaration and if HCPI so elects and specifies the dollar amount in
its tax return. To the extent that HCPI does not distribute all of its net
long term capital gain or distributes at least 95%, but less than 100%, of its real estate investment trust taxable income, as adjusted, it will be subject
to tax thereon at regular corporate tax rates. Furthermore, if HCPI should fail
to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of 85% of its real
estate investment trust ordinary income for such year, (ii) 95% of its real
estate investment capital gain income for such year, and (iii) any undistributed
taxable income from prior periods, HCPI would be subject to a 4% excise tax on
the excess of such required distributions over the amounts actually distributed.

 If HCPI fails to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, and
certain relief provisions do not apply, HCPI will be subject to tax (including
any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular
corporate rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which HCPI fails
to qualify will not be deductible by HCPI nor will they be required to be made.
Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, HCPI will also be
disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the
year during which qualification was lost. It is not possible to state whether
in all circumstances HCPI would be entitled to the statutory relief. Failure to
qualify for even one year could substantially reduce distributions to
stockholders and could result in incurring substantial indebtedness (to
the extent borrowings are feasible) or liquidating substantial investments in
order to pay the resulting taxes.

 In addition, President Fiscal 2000 budget proposal includes a
provision which, if enacted in its present form, would result in the immediate
taxation of all gain inherent in a C assets upon an election by
the corporation to become a REIT in taxable years beginning after January 1,
2000 (i.e, for elections starting in 2001), and thus could effectively preclude
HCPI from reelecting to be taxed as a REIT if there were a loss of its REIT
status.

 Distributions made to taxable U.S. stockholders out of current or
accumulated earnings and profits, unless designated as capital gain
distributions, will be taken into account by them as ordinary income. Such
distributions will not be eligible for the dividends received deductions for
corporations as long as HCPI qualifies as a REIT. Distributions made by HCPI
that are properly designated by HCPI as capital gain dividends will be taxable
to taxable U.S. stockholders as gains (to the extent that they do not exceed
 actual net capital gain for the taxable year) from the sale or
disposition of a capital asset. In general, such gains are taxable to non 
corporate U.S. stockholders at a 20% or 25% rate, depending on certain
designations, if any, which may be made by HCPI. Corporate stockholders may,
however, be required to treat up to 20% of any such capital gain dividend as
ordinary income. Distributions in excess of current or accumulated earnings and
profits will not be taxable to a U.S. stockholder to the extent that they do not
exceed the adjusted basis of the shares. To the extent that such
distributions exceed the adjusted basis of a U.S. shares they will
be included in income as capital gain (as described below with respect to the
sale or exchange of the shares) assuming the shares are held as a capital asset
in the hands of the stockholder. Stockholders may not include in their
individual income tax returns any net operating losses or capital losses of
HCPI.

 HCPI may elect to retain, rather than distribute as a capital gain
dividend, its net long term capital gains. In such event, HCPI would pay tax on
such retained net long term capital gains. In addition, for tax years of HCPI
beginning on or after January 1, 1998, to the extent designated by HCPI, a U.S.
stockholder generally would include its proportionate share of such
undistributed long term capital gains in computing its long term capital gains
in its return for its taxable year in which the last day of taxable year
falls (subject to certain limitations as to the amount so includable), (ii) be
deemed to have paid the capital gains tax imposed on HCPI on the designated
amounts included in such long term capital gains, (iii) receive a
credit or refund for such amount of tax deemed paid by it, (iv) increase the
adjusted basis of its shares by the difference between the amount of such
includable gains and the tax deemed to have been paid by it, and in the case
of a U.S. stockholder that is a corporation, appropriately adjust its earnings
and profits for the retained capital gains in accordance with Treasury
Regulations to be prescribed by the Service.

 In general, any gain or loss upon a sale or exchange of shares by a taxable
U.S. stockholder who has held such shares as a capital asset will be taxable as
long term capital gain if the shares have been held for more than one year or
short term capital gain if the shares have been held for one year or less 
provided however, any loss on the sale or exchange of shares that have been held
by such stockholder for six months or less will be treated as a long term
capital loss to the extent of distributions from HCPI required to be treated by
such stockholder as long term capital gain.

 HCPI and its stockholders may be subject to state or local taxation in
various state or local jurisdictions, including those in which it or they
transact business or reside. The state and local tax treatment of HCPI and its
shareholders may not conform to the federal income tax consequences discussed
above.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

 The health care industry is heavily regulated by federal, state and local
laws. This government regulation of the health care industry affects HCPI
because 

 The financial ability of lessees to make rent and debt payments to HCPI may
 be affected by government regulations such as licensure, certification for
 participation in government programs, and government reimbursement, and

 additional rents are generally based on its lessees' gross revenue
 from operations.

 These laws and regulations are subject to frequent and substantial changes
resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and
administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. These changes may
have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or impermissible
activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of
reimbursement by both government and other third party payors. These changes
may be applied retroactively. The ultimate timing or effect of these changes
cannot be predicted. The failure of any borrower of funds from us or lessee of
any of our properties to comply with such laws, requirements and regulations
could affect its ability to operate its facility or facilities and could
adversely affect such or ability to make debt or lease
payments to us.
 
 Fraud and Abuse. There are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraud
by healthcare providers, including criminal provisions which prohibit filing
false claims or making false statements to receive payment or certification
under Medicare and Medicaid, or failing to refund overpayments or improper
payments. Violation of these federal provisions is a felony punishable by up to
five years imprisonment and/or $25,000 fines. Civil provisions prohibit the
knowing filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain
payment. The penalties for such a violation are fines of not less than $5,000
nor more than $10,000, plus treble damages, for each claim filed.

 There are also laws that attempt to eliminate fraud and abuse by
prohibiting payment arrangements that include compensation for patient
referrals. The federal Anti Kickback Law prohibits, among other things, the
offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return
for, or to induce, the referral of Medicare and Medicaid patients. A wide array
of relationships and arrangements, including ownership interests in a company by
persons who refer or who are in a position to refer patients, as well as
personal services agreements, have under certain circumstances, been alleged or
been found to violate these provisions. In addition to the Anti Kickback
Statute, the federal government restricts certain financial relationships
between physicians and other providers of healthcare services.

 State and federal governments are devoting increasing attention and
resources to anti fraud initiatives against healthcare providers. The Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the Balanced Budget Act
expand the penalties for healthcare fraud, including broader provisions for the
exclusion of providers from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Further, under
Operation Restore Trust, a major anti fraud demonstration project, the Office of
Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, in
cooperation with other federal and state agencies, has focused on the activities
of skilled nursing facilities, home health agencies, hospices and durable
medical equipment suppliers in certain states, including California, in which we
have properties. Due to the success of Operation Restore Trust, the project has
been expanded to numerous other states and to additional providers including
providers of ancillary nursing home services.

 Violations of such laws and regulations may jeopardize a or
 ability to operate a facility or to make rent and debt payments, 
thereby potentially adversely affecting HCPI. lease arrangements with 
lessees may also be subject to these fraud and abuse laws. Federal and state 
laws governing illegal rebates and kickbacks regulate contingent or
percentage rent arrangements where co investors are physicians or 
others in a position to refer patients to the facilities. Although only 
limited interpretive or enforcement guidance is available, HCPI has 
structured its rent arrangements in a manner which it believes complies with 
such laws and regulations.

 Based upon information HCPI has periodically received from its operators
over the terms of their respective leases and loans, HCPI believes that the
facilities in which it has investments are in substantial compliance with the
various regulatory requirements applicable to them, although there can be no
assurance that the operators are in compliance or will remain in compliance in
the future.
 
 Licensure Risks. Health care facilities must obtain licensure to operate.
Failure to obtain licensure or loss of licensure would prevent a facility from
operating. These events could adversely affect the facility ability
to make rent and debt payments. State and local laws also may regulate
expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of
medical equipment, and occasionally the contraction of health care facilities by
requiring certificate of need or other similar approval programs. In addition,
health care facilities are subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act and
building and safety codes which govern access to and physical design 
requirements and building standards for facilities.
 
 Environmental Matters. A wide variety of federal, state and local 
environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect
healthcare facility operations. Under various federal, state and local
environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or
a secured lender (such as HCPI) may be liable for the costs of removal or
remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in 
connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to 
hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for 
injuries to persons and adjacent property). Such laws often impose such
liability without regard to whether the owner or secured lender knew of,
or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of such substances and may
be imposed on the owner or secured lender in connection with the activities
of an operator of the property. The cost of any required remediation, 
removal, fines or personal or property damages and the or secured
 liability therefore could exceed the value of the property, and/or
the assets of the owner or secured lender. In addition, the presence of
such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such
substances, may adversely affect the ability to sell or rent such
property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn,
would reduce revenues.

 Although the mortgage loans that HCPI provides and leases covering its 
properties require the borrower and the lessee to indemnify HCPI for certain
environmental liabilities, the scope of such obligations may be limited and HCPI
cannot assure that any such borrower or lessee would be able to fulfill its
indemnification obligations.

 Medicare and Medicaid Programs. Sources of revenues for lessees may
include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance
carriers, health care service plans and health maintenance organizations, among
others. You should expect efforts to reduce costs by these payors to continue,
which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain
services provided by some of lessees. In addition, the failure of any of
 lessees to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize
their ability to continue participating in the Medicare and Medicaid programs.
 
 Medicare payments for psychiatric, long term and rehabilitative care are
based on allowable costs plus a return on equity for proprietary facilities.
Medicare payments to acute care hospitals for inpatient services are based on
the Prospective Payment System. Under the Prospective Payment System, a 
hospital is paid a prospectively established rate based on the category of 
the diagnosis ( Diagnostic Related Groups or DRGs ). Beginning 
in 1991, Medicare payments began to phase in the Prospective Payment System 
over a period of years. Thus, Medicare reimbursement to hospitals for capital 
related inpatient costs began using a federal rate rather than the cost based
reimbursement system previously used. DRG rates are subject to adjustment on 
an annual basis as part of the federal budget reconciliation process. The 
Balanced Budget Act of 1997 expanded the Prospective Payment System to 
include skilled nursing facilities, home health agencies, hospital outpatient
departments, and rehabilitation hospitals. See Health Care Reform section
and further discussion below.
 
 Medicaid programs generally pay for acute, rehabilitative and psychiatric
care based on reasonable costs at fixed rates long term care facilities are
generally reimbursed using fixed daily rates. Both Medicare and Medicaid
payments are generally below retail rates for lessee-operated facilities.
Increasingly, states have introduced managed care contracting techniques in the
administration of Medicaid programs. Such mechanisms could have the impact of
reducing utilization of and reimbursement to lessee-operated facilities.
 
 Third party payors in various states and areas base payments on costs,
retail rates or, increasingly, negotiated rates. Negotiated rates can include
discounts from normal charges, fixed daily rates and prepaid capitated rates.
 
 Prospective Payment System. Up until July 1, 1998, Medicare and most state
Medicaid programs utilized a cost based reimbursement system for skilled nursing
facilities which reimbursed these facilities for the reasonable direct and 
indirect allowable costs incurred in providing routine services plus in certain 
states, a return on equity, subject to certain cost ceilings. These costs 
normally included allowances for administrative and general costs as well as
the costs of property and equipment (depreciation and interest, fair rental
allowance or rental expense). In certain states, cost based reimbursement was
typically subject to retrospective adjustment through cost report settlement, 
and for certain states, payments made to a facility on an interim basis that 
were subsequently determined to be less than or in excess of allowable costs
could be adjusted through future payments to the affected facility and to 
other facilities owned by the same owner. State Medicaid reimbursement programs
varied as to the methodology used to determine the level of allowable costs
which were reimbursed to operators. 

 Beginning on July 1, 1998, the congressionally mandated Prospective 
Payment System was implemented for skilled nursing facilities. Under the 
Prospective Payment System, skilled nursing facilities are paid a case mix 
adjusted federal per diem rate for Medicare covered services
provided by skilled nursing facilities. The per diem rate is calculated to
cover routine service costs, ancillary costs and capital related costs. The
phased in implementation of the prospective payment system for skilled nursing
facilities began with the first cost reporting period beginning on or after July
1, 1998. The Prospective Payment System is expected to be fully implemented
by July 1, 2001. The effect of the implementation of the Prospective 
Payment System on a particular skilled nursing facility will vary in
relation to the amount of revenue derived from Medicare patients for each
skilled nursing facility.
 
 Skilled nursing facilities may need to restructure their operations to
accommodate the new Medicare Prospective Payment System reimbursement. In part
because of the uncertainty as to the effect of the Prospective Payment System on
skilled nursing facilities, in November 1998, Standard & placed many
skilled nursing facility companies on a credit watch because of the potential 
negative impact of the implementation of the Prospective Payment System on the 
financial condition of skilled nursing facilities, including the ability to make
interest and principal payments on outstanding borrowings. In early March 1999,
Standard & lowered the ratings of several skilled nursing facility 
companies, including tenants Genesis, IHS, Sun and Mariner as discussed
above under Relationship with Major Operators, because of the impact of the 
implementation of the Prospective Payment System, particularly those companies 
with substantial debt.
 
 Long Term Care Facilities. Long term care facilities are regulated
primarily through the licensing of such facilities against a common background
established by federal law enacted as part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
Act of 1987. Regulatory authorities and licensing standards vary from state to
state, and in some instances from locality to locality. These standards are
constantly reviewed and revised. Agencies periodically inspect facilities, at
which time deficiencies may be identified. The facilities must correct these
deficiencies as a condition to continued licensing or certification and
participation in government reimbursement programs. Depending on the nature of
such deficiencies, remedies can be routine or costly. Similarly, compliance
with regulations which cover a broad range of areas such as patients' rights,
staff training, quality of life and quality of resident care may increase
facility start up and operating costs.

 Congregate Care and Assisted Living Facilities. Assisted living facilities
are subject to federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection
laws. These laws regulate, among other matters, the number of licensed beds,
the provision of services, equipment, staffing and operating policies and
procedures. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in
the denial of reimbursement, the imposition of fines, suspension or
decertification from the Medicare and Medicaid program, and in extreme cases,
the revocation of a license or closure of a facility. Such actions
may have an effect on the revenues of the operators of properties owned by HCPI
and therefore adversely impact HCPI.

 Acute Care Hospitals. Acute care hospitals are also subject to extensive
federal, state and local regulation. Acute care hospitals undergo periodic
inspections regarding standards of medical care, equipment and hygiene as a
condition of licensure. Various licenses and permits also are required for
purchasing and administering narcotics, operating laboratories and pharmacies
and the use of radioactive materials and certain equipment. Each of the
lessees' facilities, the operation of which requires accreditation, is
accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations.
Such accreditation may be a more cost effective and time efficient method of
meeting requirements for continued licensing and for participation in government
sponsored provider programs.

 Acute care hospitals must comply with requirements for various forms of
utilization review. In addition, under the Prospective Payment System, each 
state must have a Peer Review Organization carry out federally mandated 
reviews of Medicare patient admissions, treatment and discharges in acute
care hospitals.

 Psychiatric and Rehabilitation Hospitals. Psychiatric and rehabilitation
hospitals are subject to extensive federal, state and local legislation,
regulation, inspection and licensure requirements similar to those of acute care
hospitals. For psychiatric hospitals, there are specific laws regulating civil
commitment of patients and disclosure of information. Many states have adopted
a bill of rights which provides for certain higher standards for
patient care that are designed to decrease restrictions and enhance dignity in
treatment. Insurance reimbursement for psychiatric treatment generally is more
limited than for general health care.

 Physician Group Practice Clinics. Physician group practice clinics are
subject to extensive federal, state and local legislation and regulation. Every
state imposes licensing requirements on individual physicians and on facilities
and services operated by physicians. In addition, federal and state laws
regulate health maintenance organizations and other managed care organizations
with which physician groups may have contracts. Many states require regulatory
approval, including certificates of need, before establishing certain types of
physician directed clinics, offering certain services or making expenditures in
excess of statutory thresholds for health care equipment, facilities or
programs. In connection with the expansion of existing operations and the entry
into new markets, physician clinics and affiliated practice groups may become
subject to compliance with additional regulation.


HEALTH CARE REFORM

 The health care industry has continually faced various challenges, 
including increased government and private payor pressure on health care
providers to control costs, the migration of patients from acute care
facilities into extended care and home care settings and the vertical and 
horizontal consolidation of health care providers. The pressure to control
health care costs intensified during 1994 and 1995 as a result of the
national health care reform debate and continued into 1997 as Congress 
attempted to slow the rate of growth of federal health care expenditures 
as part of its effort to balance the federal budget.
 
 In addition to the reforms enacted and considered by Congress from time to
time, state legislatures periodically consider various health care reform
proposals. Changes in the law, new interpretations of existing laws, and
changes in payment methodology may have a dramatic effect on the definition of
permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with
doing business and the amount of reimbursement by both government and other
third party payors. These changes may be applied retroactively. The ultimate
timing or effect of legislative efforts cannot be predicted and may impact HCPI
in different ways.

 These changes include 

 The adoption of the Medicare+Choice program, which expands Medicare
 beneficiaries' choices to include traditional Medicare fee for service,
 private fee for service medical savings accounts, various managed care
 plans, and provider sponsored organizations, among others,
 The expansion and restriction of reimbursement for various Medicare
 benefits,
 The freeze in hospital rates in 1998 and more limited annual increases in
 hospital rates for 1999 2002,
 The adoption of a Prospective Payment System for skilled nursing
 facilities, home health agencies, hospital outpatient departments, and
 rehabilitation hospitals,
 The repeal of the Boren amendment payment standard for Medicaid so that
 states have the exclusive authority to determine provider rates and
 providers have no federal right of action,
 The reduction in Medicare disproportionate share payments to hospitals, and
 The removal of the $150,000,000 limit on tax exempt bonds for nonacute
 hospital capital projects.

 The implementation of these amendments will occur at various times for
instance, the Prospective Payment System for skilled nursing facilities went 
into effect for the first cost reporting period after July 1, 1998, while the
Prospective Payment System for home health agencies will not be implemented 
until October 1, 2000.
 
 In seeking to limit Medicare reimbursement for long term care services,
Congress established the Prospective Payment System for skilled nursing facility
services to replace the cost based reimbursement system. See Government 
Regulation Prospective Payment System. 
 
 In addition, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 strengthens the anti fraud and
abuse laws to provide for stiffer penalties for fraud and abuse violations.
The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 signed by President Clinton on August 5,
1997, is expected to produce several billion dollars in net savings for
Medicaid over five years. In addition, the Balanced Budget Act repealed the
Boren Amendment under which states were required to pay long term care
providers, including skilled nursing facilities, rates that are reasonable and
adequate to meet the cost which must be incurred by efficiently and economically
operated facilities. As a result of the repeal of the Boren Amendment, states
are now required by the Balanced Budget Act for skilled nursing facilities to Use a public process for determining rates Publish proposed and final rates, the methodologies underlying the
 rates, and justifications for the rates Give methodologies and justifications
 
 During rate setting procedures, states are required to take into account
the situation of skilled nursing facilities that serve a disproportionate number
of low income patients with special needs. The Secretary of the Department of
Health and Human Services is required to study and report to Congress within
four years concerning the effect of state rate setting methodologies on the
access to and the quality of services provided to Medicaid beneficiaries. The
Balanced Budget Act also provides the federal government with expanded
enforcement powers to combat waste, fraud and abuse in delivery of healthcare
services. Though applicable to payments for services furnished on or after
October 1, 1997, the new requirements are not retroactive. Thus, states that
have not proposed changes in their payment methods or standards, or changes in
rates for items and services furnished on or after October 1, 1997, need not
immediately implement a Balanced Budget Act public approval process.

 President Clinton recently signed the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency
Supplemental Appropriations Act of 1999 ( Appropriations Act ) into law. The
Appropriations Act delays imposition of the Prospective Payment System for home
health agencies until October 1, 2000. Moreover, the Appropriations Act 
increases both the per enrollee and per agency limits implemented under the 
interim payment system imposed by the Balance Budget Act of 1997. According to 
a statement from the House Commerce Committee, more than 65 percent of the 
home health agencies will receive increased Medicare payments under the 
Appropriations Act. A portion of the cost of these changes will be financed 
by reducing the annual Medicare home health update by 1.1 percentage points 
from 2000 to 2003. These changes may also affect the revenues of the 
operators of the properties owned by HCPI.

 In addition to the reforms enacted and considered by Congress from time to
time, state legislatures periodically consider various health care reform
proposals. Congress and state legislatures can be expected to continue to
review and assess alternative health care delivery systems and payment
methodologies and public debate of these issues can be expected to continue in
the future. There are numerous initiatives at the federal and state levels
for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for and availability of
health care services. Changes in the law, new interpretations of existing laws,
and changes in payment methodology may have a dramatic effect on the 
definition of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs 
associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by both 
government and other third party payors. These changes may be applied 
retroactively. The ultimate timing or effect of legislative efforts cannot be 
predicted and may impact HCPI in different ways.

 In 1997, health expenditures in the United States amounted to $1.1
trillion, representing 13.5 percent of Gross Domestic Product. The Health Care
Financing Administration projects that national health spending growth will
accelerate beginning in 1998, growing at an average annual rate of 6.5 percent
between 1998 and 2001. This compares to a 5.0 percent average annual growth
rate from 1993 to 1996. HCPI believes that government and private efforts to
contain or reduce health care costs will continue. These trends are likely to
lead to reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided
by some of lessees. HCPI believes that the vast nature of the health
care industry, the financial strength and operating flexibility of its operators
and the diversity of its portfolio will mitigate the impact of any such
diminution in reimbursements. However, HCPI cannot predict whether any of the
above proposals or any other proposals will be adopted and, if adopted, no
assurance can be given that the implementation of such reforms will not have a
material adverse effect on financial condition or results of operations.

OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES

 HCPI is organized to invest in income producing health care related
facilities. In evaluating potential investments, HCPI considers such factors as

 The geographic area, type of property and demographic profile 
 The location, construction quality, condition and design of the property 
 The current and anticipated cash flow and its adequacy to meet operational
 needs and lease obligations and to provide a competitive market return on
 equity to investors 
 The potential for capital appreciation, if any 
 The growth, tax and regulatory environment of the communities in which the
 properties are located 
 Occupancy and demand for similar health facilities in the same or nearby
 communities 
 An adequate mix of private and government sponsored patients 
 Potential alternative uses of the facilities and
 Prospects for liquidity through financing or refinancing.

 There are no limitations on the percentage of total assets that may
be invested in any one property or partnership. The Investment Committee of the
Board of Directors may establish limitations as it deems appropriate from time
to time. No limits have been set on the number of properties in which HCPI will
seek to invest, or on the concentration of investments in any one facility or
any one city or state. HCPI acquires its investments primarily for income.

 At December 31, 1998, HCPI has preferred stock and two classes of debt
securities which are XX to the common stock. HCPI may, in the future, issue
additional debt or equity securities which will be XX to the common stock.
HCPI has authority to offer shares of its capital stock in exchange for
investments which conform to its standards and to repurchase or otherwise
acquire its shares or other securities.

 HCPI may incur additional indebtedness when, in the opinion of its
management and it is advisable. For short term purposes HCPI from
time to time negotiates lines of credit, or arranges for other short term
borrowings from banks or otherwise. HCPI may arrange for long term borrowings
through public offerings or from institutional investors. Under its Bylaws,
HCPI is subject to various restrictions with respect to borrowings.

 In addition, HCPI may incur additional mortgage indebtedness on real estate
which it has acquired through purchase, foreclosure or otherwise. Where
leverage is present on terms deemed favorable, HCPI invests in properties
subject to existing loans, or secured by mortgages, deeds of trust or similar
liens on the properties. HCPI also may obtain non recourse or other mortgage
financing on unleveraged properties in which it has invested or may refinance
properties acquired on a leveraged basis.

 In July 1990, HCPI adopted a rights agreement whereby HCPI
distributed a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of common stock
and authorized the distribution of one right with respect to each subsequently
issued share. Each right, as adjusted for 1992 stock split, will
entitle its holder to purchase one half of a share of common stock of HCPI at
an exercise price of $47.50 per share. The rights will become exercisable if a
person acquires 15% or more of outstanding common stock or makes a
tender offer which will result in the owning 30% or more of 
common stock. Under certain circumstances, the rights will entitle the holders
to purchase shares of common stock, or securities of an entity that
acquires HCPI, at one half market value. HCPI may redeem the rights at any
time prior to a acquiring 15% of common stock. The rights are
intended to protect stockholders of HCPI from takeover tactics that could
deprive them of the full value of their shares.

 HCPI will not, without the prior approval of a majority of 
acquire from or sell to any director, officer or employee of HCPI, or any
affiliate thereof, as the case may be, any of the assets or other property of
HCPI.

 HCPI provides to its stockholders annual reports containing audited
financial statements and quarterly reports containing unaudited information.

 The policies set forth herein have been established by the Board of
Directors of HCPI and may be changed without stockholder approval.




 Health Care Property Investors
 | |
 |
 | | | | | | |
Texas HCP, Inc. Texas HCP, G.P, Inc. HCPI Trust HCPI Knightdale, Inc. HCPI Charlotte, Inc. HCPI Mortgage Corp. |
 100 % 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% |
 | | |
 | | | 
 || |
 | | 
 Texas HCP Holding, LP | 
 | |
 99% | 1% | 
 | | 
 | 
 | | | 
 | | | 
 | | | 
HCPI/San Antonio LP HCPI/Austin Investors** |
 90% 50% |
 |
 | 
 Health Care Property Partners 77%
 HCPI Kansas LP 97%
 HCPI Indiana, LLC 90%
 HCPI/Little Rock, LP 97%
 HCPI/Colorado Springs, LP 97%
 HCPI/Baton Rouge Investors** 50%
 HCPI/Rhode Island Investors** 50%
 HCPI/Kenner Investors** 50%
 Cambridge Medical Properties, LLC 90%
 Seminole Shores Living Center, LLC** 45%
 Edgewood Assisted Living, LLC** 45%
 Various Non Consolidated LLCs*


* HCPI is non managing member and has an 80% interest in the following limited liability companies 
 Ft. Worth Cal Associates, LLC Ponca Cal Associates, LLC
 Louisiana Two Associates, LLC Statesboro Associates, LLC
 Oak City Cal Associates, LLC Tucson Cal Associates, LLC
 Oklahoma Four Associates, LLC Vista Cal Associates, LLC
 Perris Ca Associates, LLC
 
** Non Consolidated Partnerships
YEAR 1998, CIK 356130, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 
GENERAL

 EMC Insurance Group Inc. is an insurance holding company incorporated in
Iowa in 1974. EMC Insurance Group Inc. is approximately 67 percent owned by
Employers Mutual Casualty Company (Employers Mutual), a multiple-line property
and casualty insurance company organized as an Iowa mutual insurance company
in 1911 that is licensed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The
term "Company" is used interchangeably to describe EMC Insurance Group Inc.
(Parent Company only) and EMC Insurance Group Inc. and its subsidiaries. 
Employers Mutual and all of its subsidiaries and an affiliate (including the
Company), are referred to as the "EMC Insurance Companies."

 The Company conducts its insurance business through four business 
segments as follows:
 : :
 : EMC INSURANCE GROUP INC. :
 ::
 : Excess and
Property and : Nonstandard Surplus Lines
 Casualty : Risk Automobile Insurance
 Insurance Reinsurance : Insurance Agency
 : : : : :
 : : : :
EMCASCO Insurance EMC Farm and City EMC
 Company (EMCASCO) Reinsurance Insurance Underwriters,
Illinois EMCASCO Company Company Ltd.
 Insurance Company
 (Illinois EMCASCO)
Dakota Fire Insurance
 Company (Dakota Fire)


 EMCASCO was formed in Iowa in 1958, Illinois EMCASCO was formed in
Illinois in 1976 and Dakota Fire was formed in North Dakota in 1957 for the
purpose of writing property and casualty insurance. These companies are
licensed to write insurance in a total of 35 states and are participants in a
pooling agreement with Employers Mutual. (See "Property and Casualty
Insurance - Pooling Agreement").

 The reinsurance subsidiary was formed in 1981 to assume reinsurance
business from Employers Mutual. The company assumes a portion of Employers
 assumed reinsurance business, exclusive of certain reinsurance
contracts, and is licensed to do business in 11 states.

 The nonstandard risk automobile insurance subsidiary was purchased in
1984. The company was formed in Iowa in 1962 to write nonstandard risk
automobile insurance and is licensed in 6 states.

 The excess and surplus lines insurance agency was acquired in 1985. The
company was formed in Iowa in 1975 as a broker for excess and surplus lines
insurance.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 For information concerning the revenues, operating income and
identifiable assets attributable to each of its industry segments over the
past three years, see note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
und 8 of this Form 10-K.



PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE
POOLING AGREEMENT

 The three property and casualty insurance subsidiaries of the Company and
two subsidiaries and an affiliate of Employers Mutual (Union Insurance Company
of Providence, American Liberty Insurance Company and Hamilton Mutual
Insurance Company) are parties to reinsurance pooling agreements with
Employers Mutual (collectively the "pooling agreement"). Under the terms of
the pooling agreement, each company cedes to Employers Mutual all of its
insurance business, with the exception of any voluntary reinsurance business
assumed from nonaffiliated insurance companies, and assumes from Employers
Mutual an amount equal to its participation in the pool. All losses,
settlement expenses and other underwriting and administrative expenses,
excluding the voluntary reinsurance business assumed by Employers Mutual from
nonaffiliated insurance companies, are prorated among the parties on the basis
of participation in the pool. The aggregate participation of the 
property and casualty insurance subsidiaries is 22 percent. Operations of the
pool give rise to intercompany balances with Employers Mutual, which are
settled on a quarterly basis. The investment activities and income tax
liabilities of the pool participants are not subject to the pooling agreement.
 

 The purpose of the pooling agreement is to spread the risk of an exposure
insured by any of the pool participants among all the companies. The pooling
agreement produces a more uniform and stable underwriting result from year to
year for all companies in the pool than might be experienced individually. In
addition, each company benefits from the capacity of the entire pool, rather
than being limited to policy exposures of a size commensurate with its own
assets, and from the wide range of policy forms, lines of insurance written,
rate filings and commission plans offered by each of the companies. A single
set of reinsurance treaties is maintained for the protection of all seven
companies in the pool.

 Effective January 1, 1997, Hamilton Mutual Insurance Company (Hamilton
Mutual) became a participant in the pooling agreement. The addition of
Hamilton Mutual did not impact the aggregate participation in the
pooling agreement. In connection with this change in the pooling agreement,
the liabilities increased $6,393,063 and invested assets increased
$5,674,458. The Company reimbursed Employers Mutual $794,074 for commissions
incurred to generate this business and Employers Mutual paid the Company
$75,469 in interest income as the actual cash transfer did not occur until
March 24, 1997. 

 On December 19, 1997, the Company announced that its nonstandard risk
automobile insurance subsidiary will become a participant in the pooling
agreement effective January 1, 1998. The nonstandard risk automobile
insurance subsidiary will receive a 1.5 percent participation in the pool,
which will increase the aggregate participation in the pool to 23.5
percent. Revenues of the Company are expected to increase by approximately
$2,000,000 due to the increase in the size of the pool.


PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

 The property and casualty insurance subsidiaries and the other
parties to the pooling agreement underwrite both commercial and personal lines
of insurance. The following table sets forth the aggregate direct written
premiums of all parties to the pooling agreement for the three years ended
December 31, 1997. The pooling agreement is continuous, but may be amended or
terminated at the end of any calendar year as to any one or more parties.


 Percent Percent Percent
 of of of
Line 1997 total 1996 total 1995 total
 (Dollars in thousands)
Commercial Lines:
 Automobile $118,624 18.4% $107,786 18.9% $ 99,165 17.8%
 Property 110,637 17.2 92,963 16.3 89,130 16.0
 Workers' compensation 115,117 17.9 118,479 20.7 131,415 23.5
 Liability 110,647 17.2 105,889 18.5 105,571 18.9
 Other 15,139 2.4 13,998 2.5 13,975 2.5 
 Total commercial lines 470,164 73.1 439,115 76.9 439,256 78.7 

Personal Lines:
 Automobile 109,214 17.0 83,428 14.6 79,121 14.2
 Property 61,569 9.6 46,459 8.2 39,840 7.1
 Liability 2,026 0.3 1,946 0.3 - -
 Other 50 - 53 - 54 -
 
 Total personal lines 172,859 26.9 131,886 23.1 119,015 21.3 
 Total $643,023 100.0% $571,001 100.0% $558,271 100.0%
 MARKETING

 Marketing of insurance by the parties to the pooling agreement is
conducted through 18 offices located throughout the United States and
approximately 2,700 independent agencies. These offices maintain close
contact with the local market conditions and are able to react rapidly to
change. Each office employs underwriting, claims, marketing and risk
improvement representatives, as well as field auditors and branch
administrative technicians. The offices are supported by Employers Mutual
technicians and specialists. Systems are in place to monitor the underwriting
results of each office and to maintain guidelines and policies consistent with
the underwriting and marketing environment in each region.

 The following table sets forth the geographic distribution of the
aggregate direct written premiums of all parties to the pooling agreement for
the three years ended December 31, 1997.

 1997 1996 1995
 ---- ---- ----
 Alabama 3.6% 3.7% 3.1%
 Arizona 3.8 4.2 3.9 
 Illinois 5.4 6.5 6.5 
 Iowa 18.7 20.3 21.7 
 Kansas 8.2 9.0 8.8
 Michigan 4.1 3.2 3.6
 Minnesota 3.9 4.0 4.7
 Nebraska 7.0 7.7 8.1
 North Carolina 3.4 4.1 4.0
 Ohio 3.2 - -
 Texas 4.4 3.9 2.9
 Wisconsin 4.5 4.8 5.5
 Other * 29.8 28.6 27.2
 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
 * Includes all other jurisdictions, none of which accounted for more than 3%.




COMPETITION

 The property and casualty insurance business is highly competitive. The
 property and casualty insurance subsidiaries and the other pool
members compete in the United States insurance market with numerous insurers,
many of which have greater financial resources. Competition in the types of
insurance in which the property and casualty insurance subsidiaries are
engaged is based on many factors, including the perceived overall financial
strength of the insurer, premiums charged, contract terms and conditions,
services offered, speed of claim payments, reputation and experience. In this
competitive environment, insureds have tended to favor large, financially
strong insurers and the Company faces the risk that insureds may become more
selective and may seek larger and/or more highly rated insurers.

 RATING

 A.M. Best rates insurance companies based on their relative financial
strength and ability to meet their contractual obligations. The A (Excellent)
rating assigned to the property and casualty insurance subsidiaries
and the other pool members is based on the pool members' 1996 operating
results and financial condition as of December 31, 1996. reevaluates
its ratings from time to time (normally on an annual basis) and there can be
no assurance that the property and casualty insurance subsidiaries
and the other pool members will maintain their current rating in the future. 
Management believes that a rating of "A (Excellent)" or better is
important to the Company since many insureds require that companies
with which they insure be so rated. publications indicate that these
ratings are assigned to companies which believes have achieved
excellent overall performance and have a strong ability to meet their
obligations over a long period of time. ratings are based upon factors
of concern to policyholders and insurance agents and are not necessarily
directed toward the protection of investors.

REINSURANCE CEDED 

 The parties to the pooling agreement cede insurance in the ordinary
course for the purpose of limiting their maximum loss exposure
through diversification of their risks. The pool participants also purchase
catastrophe reinsurance to cover multiple losses arising from a single event.

 All major reinsurance treaties, with the exception of the pooling
agreement and a boiler treaty, are on an "excess of loss" basis whereby the
reinsurer agrees to reimburse the primary insurer for covered losses in excess
of a predetermined amount, up to a stated limit. The boiler treaty provides
for 100 percent reinsurance of the direct boiler coverage written. 
Facultative reinsurance from approved domestic markets, which provides
reinsurance on an individual risk basis and requires specific agreement of the
reinsurer as to the limits of coverage provided, is purchased when coverage by
an insured is required in excess of treaty capacity or where a high-risk type
policy could expose the treaty reinsurance programs. 
 
 Each type of reinsurance coverage is purchased in layers, and each layer
may have a separate retention level. Retention levels are adjusted according
to reinsurance market conditions and the surplus position of Employers Mutual.
The intercompany pooling arrangement aids efficient buying of reinsurance
since it allows for higher retention levels and correspondingly decreased
dependence on the reinsurance marketplace.



 A summary of the reinsurance treaties benefitting the parties to the
pooling agreement is presented below. Retention amounts reflect the
accumulated retentions of all layers within a coverage. 

 Type of Coverage Retention Limits 
 Property per risk $ 2,000,000 100 percent of $18,000,000
 Property catastrophe $11,550,000 95 percent of $51,000,000 
 Casualty $ 2,000,000 100 percent of $38,000,000 
 Workers' Compensation excess $ - $20,000,000 excess of
 $40,000,000
 Umbrella $ 1,400,000* 100 percent of $ 8,600,000 
 Fidelity and Surety $ 750,000 100 percent of $ 3,250,000
 Surety excess $ 400,000 100 percent of $ 6,850,000
 Boiler $ 0 100 percent of $50,000,000

* An annual aggregate deductible of $3,600,000 must be reached before the
reinsurers may be petitioned. 

 Although reinsurance does not discharge the original insurer from its
primary liability to its policyholders, it is the practice of insurers for
accounting purposes to treat reinsured risks as risks of the reinsurer since
the primary insurer would only reassume liability in those situations where
the reinsurer is unable to meet the obligations it assumed under the
reinsurance agreements. The ability to collect reinsurance is subject to the
solvency of the reinsurers.

 The major participants in the pool members' reinsurance programs are
presented below. The percentages represent the reinsurers' share of the total
reinsurance protection under all coverages. Each type of coverage is
purchased in layers, and an individual reinsurer may participate in more than
one coverage and at various layers within these coverages. The property per
risk, property catastrophe and casualty reinsurance programs are handled by a
reinsurance intermediary (broker). The reinsurance of those programs is
syndicated to approximately 50 domestic and foreign reinsurers.

 Percent
 of total 1997
Property per risk, property catastrophe reinsurance 
and casualty coverages: protection rating
 Underwriters at of London 20.2% A
Hannover Ruckversicherung AG 5.8 
Zurich Reinsurance Centre 5.2 A
Hartford Fire Insurance Company 4.8 A+
AXA Reassurance Company 4.2 A+ 
St. Paul Fire and Marine 3.6 A+
NAC Reinsurance Corporation 3.6 A+
PMA Reinsurance Corporation 3.2 A+

Umbrella coverage:
General Reinsurance Corporation 100.0 A++
 
Fidelity and surety coverages:
SCOR Reinsurance Company 42.0 A+
Kemper Reinsurance Company 20.0 A
Signet Star Reinsurance Company 20.0 A
Winterthur Reinsurance Corporation of America 18.0 A

Boiler coverage:
Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company 100.0 A+



 Not rated.



 Premiums ceded by all pool members and by the property and
casualty insurance subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 1997 are
presented below. Each type of reinsurance coverage is purchased in layers,
and an individual reinsurer may participate in more than one coverage and at
various layers within the coverages. Since each layer of each coverage is 
priced separately, with the lower layers being more expensive than the upper
layers, a overall participation in a reinsurance program does not
necessarily correspond to the amount of premiums it receives.

 Premiums ceded by 
 Property
 and casualty
 All pool insurance
Reinsurer members subsidiaries
 General Reinsurance Corporation$ 3,568,951 $ 785,169
Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection & Insurance Company 1,605,214 353,147
Hartford Fire Insurance Company 882,352 194,118
SCOR Reinsurance Company 875,023 192,505
PMA Reinsurance Corporation 851,558 187,343
Kemper Reinsurance Company 631,642 138,961
AXA Reassurance Company 592,297 130,305
American Re-Insurance Company 494,472 108,784
Spreckley Villers Burnhope & Company 451,669 99,367
PXRE Reinsurance Company 435,160 95,735
Other Reinsurers 7,117,222 1,565,789
 Total $17,505,560 $ 3,851,223
 The parties to the pooling agreement also cede reinsurance on both a 
voluntary and a mandatory basis to state and national organizations in 
connection with various workers' compensation and assigned risk programs and
to private organizations established to handle large risks. Premiums ceded by
all pool members and by the property and casualty insurance
subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 1997 are presented below.

 Premiums ceded by 
 Property
 and casualty
 All pool insurance
Reinsurer members subsidiaries
 Wisconsin Compensation Rating Bureau $ 4,214,988 $ 927,297
National Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Pool 3,504,567 771,005
North Carolina Reinsurance Facility 1,213,266 266,919
Mutual Reinsurance Bureau 493,270 108,519
Improved Risk Mutual 151,884 33,414
Minnesota Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Assn. (1,720,064) (378,414)
Other Reinsurers 162,766 35,809 
 
 $ 8,020,677 $ 1,764,549
 The Minnesota Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Association
 periodically reviews its financial position and distributes excess
 funds to its members. Distributions totaling $1,712,074 were received
 by the parties to the pooling agreement in 1997 and were recorded as a
 return of ceded premium.

 In formulating reinsurance programs, Employers Mutual is selective in its
choice of reinsurers. Employers Mutual selects reinsurers on the basis of
financial stability and long-term relationships, as well as price of the
coverage. Reinsurers are generally required to have a rating of "A-"
or higher and policyholders' surplus of $50,000,000 ($100,000,000 for casualty
reinsurance).

 For information concerning amounts due the Company from reinsurers for
losses and settlement expenses and prepaid reinsurance premiums and the effect
of reinsurance on premiums written and earned, and losses and settlement
expenses incurred, see "Property and Casualty Insurance Subsidiaries,
Reinsurance Subsidiary and Nonstandard Risk Automobile Insurance Subsidiary -
Reinsurance Ceded."

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN NET PREMIUMS WRITTEN AND SURPLUS

 The amount of insurance a property and casualty insurance company writes
under industry standards is a multiple of its surplus calculated in accordance
with statutory accounting practices. Generally, a ratio of 3 to 1 or less is
considered satisfactory. The ratios of the pool members for the past three
years are as follows:
 Year ended December 31, 
 1997 1996 1995
 ---- ---- ----
 Employers Mutual .80 .95 1.07
 EMCASCO 1.62 1.67 1.91
 Illinois EMCASCO 1.68 1.73 1.95
 Dakota Fire 1.59 1.61 1.80
 American Liberty 1.08 1.05 1.15
 Union .72 .68 .73
 Hamilton Mutual 1.17 - -


OUTSTANDING LOSSES AND SETTLEMENT EXPENSES

 The property and casualty insurance subsidiaries' reserve information is
included in the property and casualty loss reserve development for 1997. See
"Property and Casualty Insurance Subsidiaries, Reinsurance Subsidiary and
Nonstandard Risk Automobile Insurance Subsidiary - Outstanding Losses and
Settlement Expenses."

REINSURANCE
 The reinsurance subsidiary is a property and casualty treaty reinsurer
with a concentration in property lines. The reinsurance subsidiary assumes a
quota share portion of Employers assumed reinsurance business,
exclusive of certain reinsurance contracts. The reinsurance subsidiary
assumes its quota share portion of all premiums and related losses and
settlement expenses of this business, subject to a maximum loss per event. 
The reinsurance subsidiary does not reinsure any of Employers direct
insurance business, nor any "involuntary" facility or pool business that
Employers Mutual assumes pursuant to state law. In addition, the reinsurance
subsidiary is not liable for credit risk in connection with the insolvency of
any reinsurers of Employers Mutual. 

 Effective January 1, 1997, the reinsurance quota share
participation was increased from 95 percent to 100 percent and the maximum
loss per event assumed by the reinsurance subsidiary was increased from
$1,000,000 to $1,500,000. In connection with the change in the quota share
percentage, the liabilities increased $3,173,647 and invested assets
increased $3,066,705. The Company reimbursed Employers Mutual $106,942 for
commissions incurred to generate this business.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

 The reinsurance subsidiary assumes both pro rata and excess of loss
reinsurance from Employers Mutual. The following table sets forth the assumed
written premiums of the reinsurance subsidiary for the three years ended
December 31, 1997. The amounts for 1997 do not reflect an accounting
adjustment of $355 related to the change in quota share percentage. This
adjustment was made to offset the income statement effect that resulted from
the increase in the reinsurance reserve for unearned premiums on
January 1, 1997 in connection with this transaction.

 Percent Percent Percent
 of of of
Line 1997 total 1996 total 1995 total
 
 (Dollars in thousands)
Pro rata reinsurance:
 Property $15,499 45.1% $16,459 45.7% $19,417 53.3%
 Crop 3,101 9.0 3,704 10.3 3,085 8.5
 Casualty 2,911 8.5 2,796 7.7 2,879 7.9
 Marine/aviation 1,866 5.4 2,762 7.7 4,168 11.4
 Other 2,116 6.2 228 0.6 398 1.1
 Total pro rata reinsurance 25,493 74.2 25,949 72.0 29,947 82.2

Excess per risk reinsurance:
 Property 2,110 6.2 2,258 6.3 1,760 4.8
 Casualty 1,595 4.6 1,182 3.3 840 2.3 
 Marine/aviation - - 9 - 21 0.1
 Other 647 1.9 628 1.7 341 0.9
 Total excess per 
 risk reinsurance 4,352 12.7 4,077 11.3 2,962 8.1
 Excess catastrophe/
 aggregate reinsurance:
 Property 4,293 12.5 5,671 15.7 3,178 8.7
 Crop 252 0.8 242 0.7 292 0.8
 Marine/aviation 8 - 29 0.1 52 0.2
 Other (62) (0.2) 84 0.2 2 -
 Total excess catastrophe/
 aggregate reinsurance 4,491 13.1 6,026 16.7 3,524 9.7
 Total excess reinsurance 8,843 25.8 10,103 28.0 6,486 17.8
 
 $34,336 100.0% $36,052 100.0% $36,433 100.0%
 
MARKETING

 During 1997 and 1996, more emphasis was placed upon writing excess of
loss business and on increasing participation on existing contracts that had
favorable terms. This movement towards excess of loss business was prompted
by the continued deterioration of pro rata rates and greater control over the
pricing of excess of loss business. The reinsurance subsidiary strives to be
flexible and aggressive with opportunities that arise, while remaining
committed to profitability over premium volume. 

COMPETITION

 The reinsurance marketplace is very competitive. Employers Mutual
competes in the global reinsurance market with numerous reinsurers, many of
which have greater financial resources. In this competitive environment,
reinsurance brokers have tended to favor large, financially strong reinsurers
who are able to provide "mega" line capacity for all lines . 
Employers Mutual is addressing this by accepting a larger share of coverage on
desirable programs and strengthening its relationships with reinsurance
intermediaries. 

REINSURANCE CEDED

 Prior to 1997, the reinsurance subsidiary had an aggregate excess of loss
reinsurance treaty with Employers Mutual which provided protection from a
large accumulation of retentions resulting from multiple catastrophes in any
one calendar year. The coverage provided was $2,000,000, excess of $3,000,000
aggregate losses retained, excess of $200,000 per event. Maximum recovery was
limited to $2,000,000 per accident year. The reinsurance subsidiary did not
have any recoveries under this treaty during 1996 or 1995. Premiums paid to
Employers Mutual amounted to $500,000 and $499,950 in 1996 and 1995,
respectively. This reinsurance treaty was canceled effective January 1, 1997.

 For information concerning amounts due the Company from reinsurers for
losses and settlement expenses and prepaid reinsurance premiums and the effect
of reinsurance on premiums written and earned and losses and settlement
expenses incurred, see "Property and Casualty Insurance Subsidiaries,
Reinsurance Subsidiary and Nonstandard Risk Automobile Insurance Subsidiary -
Reinsurance Ceded." 

 RATING

 The most recent Property Casualty Key Rating Guide gives the
reinsurance subsidiary a B++ (Very Good) policyholders' rating. 
ratings are based upon factors of concern to policyholders and insurance
agents and are not necessarily directed toward the protection of investors.

OUTSTANDING LOSSES AND SETTLEMENT EXPENSES

 The reinsurance reserve information is included in the
property and casualty loss reserve development for 1997. See "Property and
Casualty Insurance Subsidiaries, Reinsurance Subsidiary and Nonstandard Risk
Automobile Insurance Subsidiary - Outstanding Losses and Settlement Expenses."

NONSTANDARD RISK AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE
 The nonstandard risk automobile insurance subsidiary
specializes in insuring private passenger automobile risks that are found to
be unacceptable in the standard automobile insurance market.

MARKETING

 The nonstandard risk automobile insurance subsidiary is licensed in a
six state area that includes Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota
and South Dakota. Personal lines automobile policies are solicited through
the American Agency System using approximately 1,100 independent agencies and
are written for two, three or six month terms. Limits of liability are
offered equal to the various state financial responsibility laws. Physical
damage coverages are written at normal insurance deductibles. The nonstandard
risk automobile insurance subsidiary experienced an increase in premium volume
in 1997 for the first time since 1993. This increase is attributed to a
change in marketing philosophy that includes a closer alignment with EMC
Insurance Companies and improved marketing and business relationships with its
agency force. 

 The following table sets forth the geographic distribution of the direct
written premiums of the nonstandard risk automobile insurance subsidiary for
the three years ended December 31, 1997.

 1997 1996 1995
 Iowa 36.0% 37.2% 39.9%
 Kansas 14.1 13.9 11.0 
 Missouri 2.1 - -
 Nebraska 19.7 22.4 25.0
 North Dakota 6.5 4.6 3.8
 South Dakota 21.6 21.9 20.3
 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
 


COMPETITION 

 The nonstandard risk marketplace is very competitive. Policies are
written for relatively short periods of time and insureds continually search
for the best rates available. The larger standard insurance companies have
developed rate tiers geared toward retaining nonstandard risk customers,
rather than passing them into the nonstandard market. In addition, more
companies have been willing to write nonstandard coverage. This additional
availability in both the standard market and the nonstandard market has
resulted in increased competition within the nonstandard market. The
nonstandard risk automobile insurance subsidiary has responded with renewed
marketing efforts toward new and existing agents and a competitive rate
structure. The nonstandard risk automobile insurance subsidiary continues to
fine tune territories and classifications in order to maximize profit
potential.

REINSURANCE CEDED 

 The nonstandard risk automobile insurance subsidiary had a reinsurance
treaty on an excess of loss basis with Employers Mutual, which provided
reinsurance for 100 percent of each loss in excess of $100,000, up to
$1,000,000. There were no recoveries under this treaty during 1997, 1996 or
1995. Premiums paid to Employers Mutual amounted to $36,076 in 1997, $37,942
in 1996 and $45,232 in 1995.

 This reinsurance treaty was canceled on December 31, 1997 in preparation
for the admittance into the pooling agreement on January 1, 1998
and all reinsurance recoverable amounts due from Employers Mutual were
commuted. In connection with this commutation, the assets increased
$58,921 and liabilities increased $62,487. The Company reported incurred
settlement expenses of $3,566 from this transaction.

 For information concerning amounts due the Company from reinsurers for
losses and settlement expenses and prepaid reinsurance premiums and the effect
of reinsurance on premiums written and earned and losses and settlement
expenses incurred, see "Property and Casualty Insurance Subsidiaries,
Reinsurance Subsidiary and Nonstandard Risk Automobile Insurance Subsidiary -
Reinsurance Ceded."

 RATING 

 The most recent Property Casualty Key Rating Guide gives the
nonstandard risk automobile insurance subsidiary an A- (Excellent)
policyholders' rating. ratings are based upon factors of concern to
policyholders and insurance agents and are not necessarily directed toward the
protection of investors.

OUTSTANDING LOSSES AND SETTLEMENT EXPENSES

 The nonstandard risk automobile insurance reserve
information is included in the property and casualty loss reserve development
for 1996. See "Property and Casualty Insurance Subsidiaries, Reinsurance
Subsidiary and Nonstandard Risk Automobile Insurance Subsidiary - Outstanding
Losses and Settlement Expenses."

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE SUBSIDIARIES, REINSURANCE SUBSIDIARY AND
NONSTANDARD RISK AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE SUBSIDIARY
SERVICES PROVIDED BY EMPLOYERS MUTUAL

 Employers Mutual provides various services to all of its subsidiaries.
Such services include data processing, claims, financial, actuarial, auditing,
marketing and underwriting. Costs of these services are allocated to the
subsidiaries outside the pooling agreement based upon a number of criteria,
including usage and number of transactions. Costs not allocated to these
subsidiaries are charged to the pool and each pool participant shares in the
total cost in proportion to its participation percentage. 



STATUTORY COMBINED RATIOS

 The following table sets forth the insurance subsidiaries'
statutory combined ratios and the property and casualty insurance industry
averages for the five years ended December 31, 1997. The combined ratios
below are the sum of the following: the loss ratio, calculated by dividing
losses and settlement expenses incurred by net premiums earned, and the
expense ratio, calculated by dividing underwriting expenses incurred by net
premiums written and policyholder dividends by net premiums earned. 

 Generally, if the combined ratio is below 100 percent, a company has an
underwriting profit; if it is above 100 percent, a company has an underwriting
loss.

 Year ended December 31,
 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993
 Property and casualty insurance
 Loss ratio 72.8% 69.1% 65.0% 67.2% 72.6%
 Expense ratio 33.2 34.9 33.1 31.1 30.9 
 Combined ratio 106.0% 104.0% 98.1% 98.3% 103.5%
 
Reinsurance
 Loss ratio 68.4% 68.7% 66.3% 82.0% 77.7%
 Expense ratio 34.1 31.5 32.3 30.4 33.1 
 Combined ratio 102.5% 100.2% 98.6% 112.4% 110.8%
 Nonstandard risk 
 automobile insurance
 Loss ratio 92.8% 88.7% 94.5% 71.5% 94.3%
 Expense ratio 27.4 26.8 26.1 24.4 23.7 
 Combined ratio 120.2% 115.5% 120.6% 95.9% 118.0%
 Total insurance operations
 Loss ratio 73.1% 70.0% 67.1% 70.9% 75.6%
 Expense ratio 33.1 33.6 32.5 30.4 30.7 
 Combined ratio 106.2% 103.6% 99.6% 101.3% 106.3%
 Property and casualty insurance 
 industry averages 
 Loss ratio 73.7% 78.3% 78.9% 81.1% 79.5%
 Expense ratio 28.1 27.5 26.1 27.3 27.4 
 Combined ratio 101.8% 105.8% 105.0% 108.4% 106.9%
 
 As reported by A.M. Best Company. The ratio for 1997 is an estimate; the
 actual combined ratio is not currently available.



REINSURANCE CEDED

 The following table presents amounts due to the Company from reinsurers for
losses and settlement expenses and prepaid reinsurance premiums as of December
31, 1997:
 1997
 Amount Percent 
 recoverable of total rating
 Wisconsin Compensation Rating Bureau .. $ 5,721,614 38.7% 
American Re-Insurance Company 1,784,051 12.1 A+
National Workers' Compensation
 Reinsurance Pool 1,678,319 11.3 
General Reinsurance Company 772,022 5.2 A++ 
Kemper Reinsurance Company 448,801 3.0 A 
Minnesota Workers' Compensation
 Reinsurance Association 388,411 2.6 
Mutual Reinsurance Bureau (MRB) 361,890 2.5 
North Carolina Reinsurance Facility.... 350,290 2.4 
Hartford Fire Insurance Company 306,245 2.1 A+
PMA Reinsurance Corporation 287,359 1.9 A+
Other Reinsurers 2,697,754 18.2
 Total $14,796,756 100.0%
 
 Amounts recoverable reflect the property and casualty insurance
 subsidiaries' pool participation percentage of amounts ceded to these
 organizations by Employers Mutual in connection with its role as "service
 carrier." Under these arrangements, Employers Mutual writes business for
 these organizations on a direct basis and then cedes 100 percent of the
 business to these organizations. Credit risk associated with these
 amounts is minimal as all companies participating in these organizations
 are responsible for the liabilities of such organizations on a pro rata
 basis.

 The amount recoverable reflects the property and casualty insurance
 subsidiaries' pool participation percentage of amounts ceded to this
 association by the pool members under a reinsurance contract that
 provides protection for workers' compensation losses in excess of
 $1,080,000 per occurrence. Credit risk associated with this amount is
 minimal as all companies writing direct workers' compensation business in
 the state of Minnesota are responsible for the liabilities of this
 association on a pro rata basis.

 The amount recoverable reflects the property and casualty insurance 
 subsidiaries' pool participation percentage of amounts ceded to this
 underwriting organization by Employers Mutual. MRB is composed of
 Employers Mutual and five other nonaffiliated mutual insurance
 companies. Each of the six members cede primarily property insurance to
 MRB and assume equal proportionate shares of this business. Each member
 benefits from the increased capacity provided by MRB. MRB is backed by
 the financial strength of the six member companies. All of the members
 of MRB were assigned an A (Excellent) or better rating by the most recent
 Property Casualty Key Ratings Guide.

 The amount recoverable reflects the property and casualty insurance
 subsidiaries' pool participation percentage of amounts ceded to this
 organization by the pool members in conjunction with the state run
 assigned risk program ("state fund"). Under this program, all insurers
 writing direct business in the state of North Carolina are required by
 law to write insurance for risks that are not insurable in the normal
 marketplace. Business written under this program is ceded 100 percent to
 the state fund and each respective company assumes from the state fund
 its share of such business in proportion to its direct writings in the
 state. Credit risk associated with this amount is minimal as all
 companies writing direct business in the state are responsible for the
 liabilities of this organization on a pro rata basis.



 The total amount at December 31, 1997 represented $571,541 in paid
 losses and settlement expenses recoverable, $13,030,150 in unpaid losses
 and settlement expenses recoverable and $1,195,065 in unearned premiums
 recoverable.

 The effect of reinsurance on premiums written and earned, and losses and
settlement expenses incurred for the three years ended December 31, 1997 is
presented below. 
 Year ended December 31, 
 1997 1996 1995
Premiums written: Direct $175,350,677 $156,161,030 $152,579,014
 Assumed from nonaffiliates .... 1,219,564 1,951,071 3,282,699
 Assumed from affiliates 178,624,357 161,671,754 159,253,136
 Ceded to nonaffiliates (5,615,772) (7,930,381) (8,365,648)
 Ceded to affiliates (164,978,055) (147,467,508) (143,259,942)
 Net premiums written $184,600,771 $164,385,966 $163,489,259
 Premiums earned:
 Direct $169,304,584 $154,859,778 $151,450,871
 Assumed from nonaffiliates .... 1,403,778 2,350,321 3,548,647
 Assumed from affiliates 171,514,339 162,326,189 157,897,322
 Ceded to nonaffiliates (5,937,679) (8,219,290) (8,680,800)
 Ceded to affiliates (159,066,776) (146,126,332) (141,949,790)
 Net premiums earned $177,218,246 $165,190,666 $162,266,250
 
Losses and settlement expenses
 incurred:
 Direct $126,922,536 $117,368,771 $ 98,651,399
 Assumed from nonaffiliates .... 926,403 948,218 608,796
 Assumed from affiliates 122,827,934 113,083,014 100,098,436
 Ceded to nonaffiliates (3,364,737) (6,817,132) (2,036,962)
 Ceded to affiliates (117,458,832) (109,215,656) (89,169,391)
 Net losses and settlement
 expenses incurred $129,853,304 $115,367,215 $108,152,278
 
OUTSTANDING LOSSES AND SETTLEMENT EXPENSES

 The Company maintains reserves for losses and settlement expenses with
respect to both reported and unreported claims. The amount of reserves for
reported claims is primarily based upon a case-by-case evaluation of the
specific type of claim, knowledge of the circumstances surrounding each claim
and the policy provisions relating to the type of loss. Reserves on assumed
business are the amounts reported by the ceding company.

 The amount of reserves for unreported claims is determined on the basis
of statistical information for each line of insurance with respect to the
probable number and nature of claims arising from occurrences which have not
yet been reported. Established reserves are closely monitored and are
frequently recomputed using a variety of formulas and statistical techniques
for analyzing actual claim costs, frequency data and other economic and social
factors.

 The Company does not discount reserves. Inflation is implicitly provided
for in the reserving function through analysis of cost trends, reviews of
historical reserving results and projections of future economic conditions. 
Large ($25,000 and over) incurred and reported gross reserves are reviewed
regularly for adequacy. In addition, long-term and lifetime medical claims
are periodically reviewed for cost trends and the applicable reserves are
appropriately revised.




 Loss reserves are estimates at a given time of what the insurer expects to
pay on incurred losses, based on facts and circumstances then known. During
the loss settlement period, which may be many years, additional facts
regarding individual claims become known, and accordingly, it often becomes
necessary to refine and adjust the estimates of liability on a claim.

 Settlement expense reserves are intended to cover the ultimate cost of
investigating claims and defending lawsuits arising from claims. These
reserves are established each year based on previous years experience to
project the ultimate cost of settlement expenses. To the extent that
adjustments are required to be made in the amount of loss reserves each year,
settlement expense reserves are correspondingly revised.

 Despite the inherent uncertainties of estimating insurance company loss
and settlement expense reserves, management believes that the 
reserves are being calculated in accordance with sound actuarial practices
and, based upon current information, that the reserves for losses
and settlement expenses at December 31, 1997 are adequate.

 The following table sets forth a reconciliation of beginning and ending
reserves for losses and settlement expenses of the property and casualty
insurance subsidiaries, the reinsurance subsidiary and the nonstandard risk
automobile insurance subsidiary. Amounts presented are on a net basis, with a
reconciliation of beginning and ending reserves to the gross amounts presented
in the consolidated financial statements.


 Year ended December 31,
 1997 1996 1995 
 Gross reserves for losses and 
 settlement expenses, beginning
 of year $202,502,986 $205,422,109 $203,181,615

Ceded reserves for losses and
 settlement expenses, beginning
 of year 13,796,769 12,226,680 14,146,874
 Net reserves for losses and
 settlement expenses, beginning
 of year, before adjustments 188,706,217 193,195,429 189,034,741
 Adjustment to beginning reserves
 due to the change in the 
 property and casualty insurance
 subsidiaries' pooling agreement... 3,795,453 - - 

Adjustment to beginning reserves
 due to the change in the 
 reinsurance quota
 share percentage 2,726,913 - -
 Net reserves for losses and
 settlement expenses, beginning
 of year, after adjustments 195,228,583 193,195,429 189,034,741

Incurred losses and 
 settlement expenses:
 Provision for insured events 
 of the current year 137,300,762 131,375,234 123,876,601
 
 Decrease in provision for 
 insured events of prior years (7,447,458) (16,008,019) (15,724,323)
 Total incurred losses and 
 settlement expenses 129,853,304 115,367,215 108,152,278
 Payments:
 Losses and settlement expenses 
 attributable to insured events
 of the current year 57,649,830 59,948,110 48,237,715

 Losses and settlement expenses
 attributable to insured events
 of prior years 62,684,265 59,908,317 55,753,875
 Total payments 120,334,095 119,856,427 103,991,590
 Net reserves for losses and
 settlement expenses, end of year 204,747,792 188,706,217 193,195,429

Ceded reserves for losses and 
 settlement expenses, end of year 13,030,150 13,796,769 12,226,680
 Gross reserves for losses and
 settlement expenses, end of year $217,777,942 $202,502,986 $205,422,109
 

 Loss and settlement expense payments reported in the financial
 statements for the year 1997 totaled $113,811,729. This amount reflects
 an adjustment of ($3,795,453) related to the change in the property and
 casualty insurance subsidiaries' pooling agreement and ($2,726,913)
 related to the change in the reinsurance quota share
 percentage. These adjustments were made to offset the income statement
 effect that resulted from the $6,522,366 increase in reserves for losses
 and settlement expenses on January 1, 1997 related to these transactions.

 The following table shows the calendar year development of loss and
settlement expense reserves of the property and casualty insurance
subsidiaries, the reinsurance subsidiary and the nonstandard risk automobile
insurance subsidiary. Amounts presented are on a net basis with, beginning in
1992, a reconciliation of the net loss and settlement expense reserves, to
the gross amounts presented in the consolidated financial statements and (ii)
disclosure of the gross re-estimated loss and settlement expense reserves and
the related re-estimated reinsurance receivables. 

 Reflected in this table is the increase in the reinsurance
 quota share assumption of Employers assumed reinsurance
business from 75 percent to 95 percent in 1988, the increase in the
property and casualty insurance subsidiaries' collective participation in the
pool from 17 percent to 22 percent in 1992, the change in the pooling
agreement whereby effective January 1, 1993 the voluntary reinsurance business
written by Employers Mutual is no longer subject to cession to the pool
members, the commutation of two reinsurance contracts under the
reinsurance quota share agreement in 1993, the gross-up of
reserve amounts associated with the National Workers' Compensation Reinsurance
Pool at December 31, 1993, the reinsurance commutation of all
outstanding reinsurance balances ceded to Employers Mutual under catastrophe
and aggregate excess of loss reinsurance treaties related to accident years
1991 through 1993 in 1994, the increase in the reinsurance 
quota share assumption of Employers assumed reinsurance business from
95 percent to 100 percent in 1997 and the addition of a new participant to
the pooling agreement effective January 1, 1997.

 In evaluating the table, it should be noted that each cumulative
redundancy (deficiency) amount includes the effects of all changes in reserves
for prior periods. Conditions and trends that have affected development of
the liability in the past, such as a time lag in the reporting of assumed
reinsurance business, the high rate of inflation associated with medical
services and supplies and the reform measures implemented by several states to
control administrative costs for workers' compensation insurance, may not
necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it may not be appropriate to
project future development of reserves based on this table. 

 During the last three years the Company has experienced favorable
development in the provision for insured events of prior years. The majority
of the favorable development has come from the property and casualty insurance
subsidiaries, which have benefitted from state reform measures in workers'
compensation insurance and various loss control functions implemented by
Employers Mutual. Favorable development has also been experienced in the
reinsurance subsidiary and the nonstandard risk auto insurance subsidiary, but
to a lesser degree. 

 The property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have historically
experienced favorable development in their reserves and current reserving
practices have not been relaxed; however, the level of redundancies
experienced in 1996 and 1995 is not expected to continue.




 Year ended December 31,
 (Dollars in thousands) 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
 Statutory reserves for losses 
 and settlement expenses $109,088 121,667 127,870 131,623 139,317 180,797 182,072 191,514 196,293 191,892 205,606
 
Reclassification of reserve
 amounts associated with the 
 National Workers' Compensation 
 Reinsurance Pool 2,378 2,911 3,855 4,338 6,830 11,364 - - - - -

Retroactive restatement of 
 reserves in conjunction with
 admittance of a new participant 
 into the pooling agreement ... 1,639 1,469 1,777 2,184 2,461 2,621 2,852 3,039 3,515 3,796 -
 Statutory reserves after
 reclassification 113,105 126,047 133,502 138,145 148,608 194,782 184,924 194,553 199,808 195,688 205,606

GAAP adjustments:
 Salvage and subrogation (930) (930) (930) (1,203) (1,284) (2,026) (1,804) (1,799) (2,369) (2,400) - 
 
 Reclass of statutory settlement
 expense portion of 
 retirement benefit liability - - - - - - (601) (680) (729) (786) (858)
 Reserves for losses and 
 settlement expenses 112,175 125,117 132,572 136,942 147,324 192,756 182,519 192,074 196,710 192,502 204,748

Paid (cumulative) as of:
 One year later 25,462 36,488 44,341 44,694 32,647 80,171 61,738 59,136 63,613 63,494 -
 Two years later 46,154 57,836 66,075 59,033 78,792 109,023 88,056 87,480 91,951 - -
 Three years later 63,144 72,343 77,146 95,435 95,149 125,856 105,173 104,805 - - -
 Four years later 71,616 79,183 106,557 104,502 104,531 135,099 114,377 - - - -
 Five years later 77,271 105,572 112,201 109,990 109,662 141,023 - - - - -
 Six years later 101,726 108,794 115,213 113,479 113,663 - - - - - -
 Seven years later 103,955 110,746 117,797 116,340 - - - - - - -
 Eight years later 105,486 112,626 119,674 - - - - - - - -
 Nine years later 107,001 114,260 - - - - - - - - -
 Ten years later 108,586 - - - - - - - - - -

Reserves reestimated as of:
 End of year 112,175 125,117 132,572 136,942 147,324 192,756 182,519 192,074 196,710 192,502 204,748
 One year later 109,865 124,455 135,523 140,794 151,771 191,986 174,865 175,065 179,240 185,054 -
 Two years later 111,571 124,404 137,408 141,353 147,993 187,185 165,481 168,254 176,280 - -
 Three years later 113,724 126,140 137,138 139,774 144,649 181,915 161,805 167,485 - - -
 Four years later 117,060 128,087 137,656 139,233 144,144 181,783 161,803 - - - -
 Five years later 119,352 128,491 136,945 139,989 144,449 182,477 - - - - -
 Six years later 120,165 127,944 138,758 140,679 145,503 - - - - - -
 Seven years later 120,354 130,086 140,372 141,731 - - - - - - -
 Eight years later 122,579 131,700 141,746 - - - - - - - -
 Nine years later 124,121 133,171 - - - - - - - - -
 Ten years later 125,665 - - - - - - - - - -
 
Cumulative redundancy
 (Deficiency) $(13,490) (8,054) (9,174) (4,789) 1,821 10,279 20,716 24,589 20,430 7,448 -
 Gross loss and settlement expense reserves - end of year $199,974 206,221 208,937 206,298 217,778
 
Reinsurance receivables 17,455 14,147 12,227 13,797 13,030
 Net loss and settlement expense reserves - end of year $182,519 192,074 196,710 192,501 204,748
 Gross re-estimated reserves - latest $176,159 180,531 190,073 200,031 217,778
Re-estimated reinsurance receivables - latest 14,356 13,046 13,793 14,977 13,030
 Net re-estimated reserves - latest $161,803 167,485 176,280 185,054 204,748
 Gross cumulative redundancy (deficiency) (A-B) $ 23,815 25,690 18,864 6,267 -
 

Asbestos and Environmental Claims

 The Company has exposure to asbestos and environmental related claims
associated with the insurance business wriiten by the parties to the pooling
agreement and the reinsurance business assumed from Employers Mutual by the
reinsurance subsidiary. 

 Estimating loss and settlement expense reserves for asbestos and
environmental claims is very difficult due to the many uncertainties
surrounding these types of claims. Such uncertainties include the fact that
the assignment of responsibility varies widely by state and claims often
emerge long after the policy has expired, which makes assignment of damages to
the appropriate party and to the time period covered by a particular policy
difficult. In establishing reserves for these types of claims, management
monitors the relevant facts concerning each claim, the current status of the
legal environment, the social and political conditions and the claim history
and trends within the Company and the industry.

 Based upon current facts, management believes the reserves established
for asbestos and environmental related claims at December 31, 1997 are
adequate. Although future changes in the legal and political environment may
result in adjustments to these reserves, management believes any adjustments
will not have a material impact on the financial condition or results of
operations of the Company.

Asbestos Claims

 The asbestos claim activity primarily relates to bodily injury
claims where a former insured has been XX as one of multiple defendants
covering exposure over many years. 

 The following table presents selected data on asbestos related losses
and settlement expenses incurred and reserves outstanding for the Company:

 Year ended December 31, 
 1997 1996 1995
 Total losses incurred $ 394,524 $ 100,090 $ 336,899
Total settlement expenses incurred 25,246 5,847 (31,667)
 Total losses and settlement expenses incurred $ 419,770 $ 105,937 $ 305,232
 Loss reserves $ 942,822 $ 662,910 $ 581,549
Settlement expense reserves 32,909 28,089 32,117
 Total loss and settlement expense reserves $ 975,731 $ 690,999 $ 613,666
 Number of outstanding claims 92 57 71
 
 The incurred and reserve amounts for 1997, 1996 and 1995 reflect 63, 40
and 25 claims, respectively, by individuals asserting asbestos exposure to
products allegedly manufactured by a former insured.
 


Environmental Claims

 The environmental claims activity is predominately related to 
pollution from hazardous waste of former insureds. The parties to the pooling
agreement have not written primary coverage for the major oil or chemical
companies. The greatest exposure arises out of claims from small regional
operations or local businesses having pollution on their own property due to
hazardous material use or leaking underground storage tanks. These insureds
include small manufacturing operations, tool makers, automobile dealerships,
contractors and gasoline stations. The remaining exposure arises out of
commercial general liability and umbrella policies issued during the 
and early which allegedly cover contamination emanating from closed
landfills. Claims related to misdeliveries or minor spills of petroleum
products covered under properly endorsed commercial auto policies are not
considered environmental claims since coverage is normally not disputed,
damages are readily determinable and settlement normally occurs over a short
period of time.

 The following table presents selected data on environmental losses and
settlement expenses incurred and reserves outstanding for the Company.

 Year ended December 31, 
 1997 1996 1995
 Total losses incurred $ 374,822 $ 85,454 $ 892,250
Total settlement expenses incurred 25,615 (27,761) 185,412
 Total losses and settlement expenses
 incurred $ 400,437 $ 57,693 $1,077,662
 Loss reserves $1,184,569 $1,103,466 $1,109,072
Settlement expense reserves 252,435 308,145 345,897
 Total loss and settlement expense 
 reserves $1,437,004 $1,411,611 $1,454,969
 Number of outstanding claims 46 63 58
 
 Included in the above table at December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 are two
closed landfills which involve three and six policyholders, respectively. 
Coverage is disputed in all 46 of the claims which were outstanding at
December 31, 1997. The coverage disputes relate to claims involving
contamination at or from insured property and (ii) closed landfills based
on the generation of waste disposed of at these sites.

EXCESS AND SURPLUS LINES INSURANCE AGENCY
 The excess and surplus lines insurance agency provides access to the
excess and surplus lines markets through independent agents and managing
general agents and represents several major excess and surplus lines
companies, including of London. Lines of insurance handled range from
relatively straightforward property and casualty insurance to the more exotic
hole-in-one, kidnap and ransom, ocean marine, aircraft and professional
liability lines. Income is derived from fees and commissions and not from
underwriting the risk.

INVESTMENTS
 
 Securities classified as held-to-maturity are purchased with the intent
and ability to be held to maturity and are carried at amortized cost. 
Unrealized holding gains and losses on securities held-to-maturity are not
reflected in the financial statements. All other securities have been
classified as securities available-for-sale and are carried at fair value,
with unrealized holding gains and losses reported as a separate component of
stockholders' equity, net of tax.




 At December 31, 1997, approximately 90 percent of the bonds
were invested in government or government agency issued securities. A variety
of maturities are maintained in the portfolio to assure adequate
liquidity. The maturity structure of bond investments is also established by
the relative attractiveness of yields on short, intermediate and long-term
bonds. The Company does not invest in any high-yield debt investments
(commonly referred to as junk bonds).

 The equity investment holdings include common stock mutual
funds and preferred stocks.

 Investments of the insurance subsidiaries are subject to the
insurance laws of the state of their incorporation. These laws prescribe the
kind, quality and concentration of investments which may be made by insurance
companies. In general, these laws permit investments, within specified limits
and subject to certain qualifications, in federal, state and municipal
obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common stocks and real estate
mortgages. The Company believes it is in compliance with these laws.

 In 1996 the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC)
adopted model legislation governing insurance company investments. This model
investment law has been adopted by one state (Illinois) and is not expected to
have a material impact on the operations of the insurance
subsidiaries. 

 The investments of EMC Insurance Group Inc. and its subsidiaries are
supervised by investment committees of each respective board of
directors. The bond and preferred stock portfolios are managed by an internal
staff which is composed of employees of Employers Mutual. The mutual fund
equity portfolios are managed by outside fund managers. 

 Investment expenses are based on actual expenses incurred plus an
allocation of other investment expenses incurred by Employers Mutual, which is
based on a weighted average of total invested assets and number of investment
transactions. 



 The following table shows the composition of the investment
portfolio (at amortized cost), by type of security, as of December 31, 1997
and 1996. In the consolidated financial statements, securities
held-to-maturity are carried at amortized cost; securities available-for-sale
are carried at fair value.

 Year ended December 31, 
 1997 1996
 Amortized Amortized
 cost Percent cost Percent
 Securities held-to-maturity:
 Fixed maturity securities: 
 U.S. treasury securities
 and obligations of U.S.
 government corporations 
 and agencies $103,826,052 26.0% $113,288,092 30.3%
 Obligations of states and
 political subdivisions ... 41,989,442 10.5 30,975,611 8.3
 Mortgage-backed securities 40,013,569 10.0 44,122,018 11.8
 Total securities held-
 to-maturity 185,829,063 46.5 188,385,721 50.4
 Securities available-for-sale:
 Fixed maturity securities: 
 Obligations of states and
 political subdivisions ... 130,945,594 32.8 114,538,500 30.6
 Foreign governments - - 2,573,101 .7 
 Public utilities 8,760,899 2.2 8,970,242 2.4
 Corporate securities 32,861,713 8.2 20,023,965 5.3
 Redeemable preferred stocks 149,000 - 688,350 .2
 Total fixed maturity
 securities 172,717,206 43.2 146,794,158 39.2
 
 Equity securities:
 Common stock mutual funds .. 20,988,146 5.3 15,963,269 4.3
 Non-redeemable preferred
 stocks 5,273,011 1.3 5,273,012 1.4
 
 Total equity securities .. 26,261,157 6.6 21,236,281 5.7
 Total securities 
 available-for-sale 198,978,363 49.8 168,030,439 44.9
 
Short-term investments 14,926,994 3.7 17,553,606 4.7
 Total investments $399,734,420 100.0% $373,969,766 100.0%
 
 Fixed maturity securities held by the Company generally have an
investment quality rating of "A" or better by independent rating agencies. 
The following table shows the composition of the fixed maturity
securities, by rating, as of December 31, 1997. 


 Securities Securities
 held-to-maturity available-for-sale
 (at amortized cost) (at fair value) 
 Amount Percent Amount Percent
Rating 
 Aaa $185,829,063 100.0% $ 46,374,134 25.8%
 Aa - - 56,387,608 31.4
 A - - 76,037,537 42.3
 Baa - - 352,209 .2
 Ba - - 501,250 .3
 Total fixed maturities $185,829,063 100.0% $179,652,738 100.0%
 
 Ratings for preferred stocks and fixed maturity securities with initial
 maturities greater than one year are assigned by 
 Services, Inc. rating process seeks to evaluate the quality of a
 security by examining the factors that affect returns to investors.
 ratings are based on quantitative and qualitative factors, as 
 well as the economic, social and political environment in which the
 issuing entity exists. The quantitative factors include debt coverage,
 sales and income growth, cash flows and liquidity ratios. Qualitative
 factors include management quality, access to capital markets and the
 quality of earnings and balance sheet items. Ratings for securities with
 initial maturities less than one year are based on an evaluation of the
 underlying assets or the credit rating of the parent company.

 The amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity securities
at December 31, 1997, by contractual maturity, are shown below. Expected
maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have
the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment
penalties.
 Estimated
 Amortized fair
 cost value 
 Securities held-to-maturity:
 Due in one year or less $ 13,989,831 $ 14,142,820
 Due after one year through five years 50,088,102 51,876,854
 Due after five years through ten years .... 66,752,623 70,871,137
 Due after ten years 14,984,941 15,354,268
 Mortgage-backed securities 40,013,566 41,589,934
 Totals $185,829,063 $193,835,013
 Securities available-for-sale: 
 Due in one year or less $ 13,803,121 $ 13,816,747
 Due after one year through five years 56,240,665 57,182,974
 Due after five years through ten years .... 42,789,912 45,216,266
 Due after ten years 59,883,508 63,436,751
 Totals $172,717,206 $179,652,738
 
 The mortgage-backed securities shown in the above table include
$22,523,833 of securities issued by government corporations and agencies and
$17,489,733 of collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs). CMOs are
securities backed by mortgages on real estate which come due at various times.
The Company has attempted to minimize the prepayment risks associated with
mortgage-backed securities by not investing in "principal only" and "interest
only" CMOs. The CMOs that the Company has invested in are designed to reduce
the risk of prepayment by providing predictable principal payment schedules
within a designated range of prepayments. Investment yields may vary from
those anticipated due to changes in prepayment patterns of the underlying
collateral.





 Investment results of the Company for the periods indicated are shown in
the following table:

 Year ended December 31, 
 1997 1996 1995
 Average invested assets $386,852,093 $367,276,871 $349,036,057
Investment income 23,759,988 23,907,599 23,173,794
Average yield 6.14% 6.51% 6.64%
Realized investment gains $ 4,100,006 $ 1,890,923 $ 1,043,730

 Average of the aggregate invested amounts (amortized cost) at the 
 beginning and end of the year.
 
 Investment income is net of investment expenses and does not include
 realized gains or provision for income taxes.

EMPLOYEES
 EMC Insurance Group Inc. has no employees of its own, although
approximately 15 employees of Employers Mutual perform administrative duties
on a part-time basis. Otherwise, the Company activities are
conducted by employees of Employers Mutual, the nonstandard risk automobile
insurance subsidiary and one of the property and casualty insurance
subsidiaries, which have 1,782, 13 and 67 employees, respectively. The
property and casualty insurance subsidiaries share the costs associated with
the pooling agreement in accordance with their pool participation percentages. 
See "Property and Casualty Insurance - Pooling Agreement."

REGULATION
 The insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation
and supervision by their home states, as well as those in which they do
business. The purpose of such regulation and supervision is primarily to
provide safeguards for policyholders rather than to protect the interests of
stockholders. The insurance laws of the various states establish regulatory
agencies with broad administrative powers, including the power to grant or
revoke operating licenses and to regulate trade practices, investments,
premium rates, deposits of securities, the form and XXof financial
statements and insurance policies, accounting practices and the maintenance of
specified reserves and capital for the protection of policyholders.

 Premium rate regulation varies greatly among jurisdictions and lines of
insurance. In most states in which the subsidiaries write
insurance, premium rates for their lines of insurance are subject to either
prior approval or limited review upon implementation. States require rates
for property and casualty insurance that are adequate, not excessive, and not
unfairly discriminatory.

 The insurance subsidiaries are required to file detailed annual
reports with the appropriate regulatory agency in each state where they do
business based on applicable statutory regulations, which differ from
generally accepted accounting principles. Their businesses and accounts are
subject to examination by such agencies at any time. Since EMC Insurance
Group Inc. and Employers Mutual are domiciled in Iowa, the State of Iowa
exercises principal regulatory supervision, and Iowa law requires periodic
examination. The insurance subsidiaries are subject to examination
by state insurance departments on a periodic basis as applicable law requires.

 State laws governing insurance holding companies also impose standards on
certain transactions with related companies, which include, among other
requirements, that all transactions be fair and reasonable and that an
 surplus as regards policyholders be reasonable and adequate in
relation to its liabilities. Under Iowa law, dividends or distributions made
by registered insurers are restricted in amount and may be subject to approval
from the Iowa Commissioner of Insurance. "Extraordinary" dividends or
distributions are subject to prior approval and are defined as dividends or
distributions which exceed the greater of 10 percent of statutory surplus as
regards policyholders as of the preceding December 31, or net income of the
preceding calendar year on a statutory basis. Both Illinois and North Dakota
impose restrictions which are similar to those of Iowa on the payment of 
dividends and distributions. At December 31, 1997, $12,722,219 was available
for distribution in 1998 to EMC Insurance Group Inc. without prior approval. 
See note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements und 8 of this
Form 10-K. 



 The NAIC utilizes a risk-based capital model to help state regulators
assess the capital adequacy of insurance companies and identify
property/casualty insurers that are in (or are perceived as approaching)
financial difficulty by establishing minimum capital needs based on the risks
applicable to the operations of the individual insurer. The risk-based
capital requirements for property and casualty insurance companies measure
three major areas of risk: asset risk, credit risk and underwriting risk. 
Companies having less statutory surplus than required by the risk-based
capital requirements are subject to varying degrees of regulatory scrutiny and
intervention, depending on the severity of the inadequacy. At December 31,
1997, each of the insurance subsidiaries has a ratio of total
adjusted capital to risk-based capital well in excess of the minimum level
required.

YEAR 1998, CIK 792861, ______________________________

ITEM 1--BUSINESS
 
 General Development .
 
 The Registrant was incorporated under the laws of the State of Illinois in
July, 1985, and in May, 1994, the Registrant changed its state of incorporation
to Delaware. Until July 1, 1996, the primary business activity was
the conduct of commodity brokerage business through its principal operating
subsidiary, Index Futures Group, Inc. ("Index").
 
 On July 1, 1996, substantially all of the brokerage accounts maintained by
Index, together with all positions, securities, and other assets held in or for
such accounts and other agreed-upon assets used in the conduct of the brokerage
activities ("Sale of Assets") were sold to E.D.& F. Man International, Inc.
("MINC"). MINC is a unit of E.D.& F. Man Group, plc, a London-based
international trading and finance conglomerate.
 
 As a condition of the Sale of Assets, the Registrant has changed its name to
IFX Corporation, and Index has changed its name to FX Chicago Inc. ("FX
Chicago").
 
 As a result of the Sale of Assets, 207 employees were offered employment at
MINC, including, Burton J. Meyer, formerly president and a director of the
Registrant, and Philip Tanzar, formerly General Counsel and a director of the
Registrant, both of whom accepted such employment, and 85 employees resigned or
were terminated.
 
 Another result of this transaction, is that FX Chicago no longer acts as a
futures broker for public customers and has withdrawn as a clearing member from
all commodity exchanges. FX operations are currently limited to
earnings from the Sale of Assets.
 
 Currently, the primary, majority-owned, operating subsidiary is
IFX Ltd. (formerly Index FX, Ltd.), a British corporation. IFX Ltd. continues
to conduct foreign exchange business as a registrant of the British Securities
and Futures Authority ("SFA"). IFX Ltd. commenced trading operations in
October, 1995 and became an SFA registrant in November, 1996.
 
 Effective July 1, 1996, the revenue stream consists of the
earnings from the Sale of Assets, as defined in the Sale of Assets agreement,
interest on its capital and income from operations of IFX Ltd. During fiscal
1998 and 1997, FX Chicago earned $4,159,600 and $2,157,900 respectively from
the Sale of Assets.
 
 Narrative Description of Business.
 
 General
 
 The Registrant is a holding company with its businesses conducted through its
wholly-owned subsidiary, FX Chicago, and its majority-owned subsidiary, IFX
Ltd.
 
 Prior to the Sale of Assets, FX Chicago, formerly known as Index, was a
futures commission merchant registered with the United States Commodity Futures
Trading Commission ("CFTC") and the SFA in the United Kingdom and was a member
of the National Futures Association ("NFA"). It was involved in all aspects of
brokerage of futures and options on futures contracts. It was a clearing member
of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the Chicago Board of Trade, the Mid-America
Commodity Exchange, the Commodity Exchange, Inc., the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the New York Futures Exchange, the New York Cotton Exchange and the
Coffee, Sugar & Cocoa Exchange. It provided a full-range of futures brokerage,
clearing and back office services for professional, institutional and public
commodities traders and, through a subsidiary, IMSI, Inc. (formerly Index
Management Services, Inc.), until July 1, 1996 acted as a commodity pool
operator. Index, until July 1, 1996, was the clearing agent for other non-
clearing futures commission merchants, financial institutions, regional
brokerage houses and introducing brokers. Operations at FX Chicago currently
relate primarily to the net income derived from the Sale of Assets.
 
 2

 
 FX Chicago presently has one wholly-owned subsidiary, IMSI, Inc., which was
organized in May, 1986. IMSI was previously registered with the CFTC as a
commodity pool operator and was a member of the NFA. IMSI was organized to
create and offer to the public, either by itself or in cooperation with others
through joint ventures, various commodity futures fund offerings which may be
marketed through broker-dealers or through participating regional brokerage
houses. As of July 1, 1996, IMSI no longer operates commodity pools. Currently,
IMSI, Inc. is a partner with a 50% interest in a trading partnership.
 
 IFX Ltd. continues to conduct foreign exchange business as a registrant of
the British SFA. IFX Ltd. commenced trading operations in October, 1995 and
became an SFA registrant in November, 1996. The operations of IFX Ltd. are
currently the primary source of income, other than income from the
Sale of Assets.
 
 While the principal business of IFX Ltd. remains that of a primary market
maker in both spot and forward foreign exchange, IFX Ltd. has also now become a
recognized market maker for both Chicago Mercantile Exchange ("CME") Currency
Exchange for Physical (EFP) transactions and OTC options.
 
 IFX Ltd. works closely with many U.S. commodity trading advisors, many of
whom, for historical reasons, track and trade currency futures contracts,
rather than the cash market. Due to the relative illiquidity of the
international monetary market of the CME, and the limited trading hours, both
the creditworthiness of the CME (assets $42 billion) and the liquidity of the
cash market (daily volume of $1,200 billion), make EFP execution through IFX
Ltd., an independent market maker, an increasingly practical solution.
 
 During fiscal 1998, in addition to the above described subsidiaries, the
Registrant had one other majority-owned subsidiary, Stark Research, Inc.
("Stark"). In September, 1993, the Registrant purchased a controlling interest
in Stark and became the majority shareholder in that company. Stark is an
investment research company which publishes monthly and quarterly magazines
regarding investments with a primary focus on funds investing in commodities.
Stark is in the process of liquidation, and had no activity during fiscal 1998.
 
 In addition, the Company formed a new wholly owned subsidiary during the past
year, IFX/Telcom, Inc. The Company intends to utilize IFX/Telcom, Inc. as its
holding company for any internet or telecommunication related ventures into
which it may enter (if any). However, at the present time, IFX/Telcom, Inc. has
no assets, liabilities, revenues or activity and there can be no assurance that
IFX/Telcom, Inc. will enter into any business activities in the future.
 
 Customers
 
 The Registrant is a holding company and as such, does not directly have
customers. Prior to the Sale of Assets, Index was the principal
source of revenue and was the principal operating subsidiary
responsible for commodity and futures related activities for customers.
Subsequent to the Sale of Assets, the only operating subsidiary
with customers is IFX Ltd. IFX is a primary market maker and actively makes
competitive 24 hour markets in spot and forward foreign exchange, from the
opening of the market in New Zealand at the start of the week, at 8:00 pm
London time each Sunday continuously until the close in New York,
at 10:00 pm London time, each Friday. IFX Ltd. customers are primarily non-
private, second tier banks, institutions, fund management companies, and
high net worth individuals.
 
 Marketing
 
 The marketing activities are limited to promoting and
maintaining direct contact with IFX Ltd. customers. The expense associated
with such efforts is reflected in the travel and entertainment
expenses.
 
 3

 
 Competition
 
 IFX Ltd. competitors are primarily the US and European futures commissions
merchants which have their own inter-bank foreign exchange desks, as well as a
growing number of clearing banks which have margin foreign exchange
operations. Competition among firms such as IFX Ltd. is intense and is
primarily based upon both price and service. Other institutions offer their
customers the same or more services than those provided by IFX Ltd. At the
same time, the number of active participants in the foreign exchange market is
relatively small when compared to those engaged in futures and securities
trading
 
 Regulation
 
 In order to maintain its listing on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market the
Registrant must satisfy revised entry and maintenance standards for
NASDAQ listed stocks. There is no assurance that the Registrant will be able
to maintain eligibility for NASDAQ.
 
 As a registrant, IFX Ltd. is subject to the financial resources requirements
adopted and administered by the SFA. As of June 30, 1998, IFX Ltd. financial
resources, as defined by the SFA, were $7,047,000, which was $4,233,000 in
excess of its requirements. The SFA requires all members to meet and maintain
specified financial requirements, and maintain segregated accounts for all
customers' funds, property and positions, and specified books and records on
customer transactions, all of which are open to inspection by the staff of the
SFA. Failure to meet its regulatory requirements could subject IFX Ltd. to
disciplinary actions including fines, censure, suspension or revocation of
registration.
 
 Employees
 
 As of August 31, 1998, the Registrant had 39 full and part-time employees
working for it, FX Chicago and IFX Ltd. As of June 30, 1997, the Registrant
and its subsidiaries had 30 full and part-time employees.
 
YEAR 1998, CIK 936372, ______________________________

Item 1. Business

Overview
 Liberty Financial Companies, Inc. ("Liberty Financial" or the "Company")
is a leading asset accumulation and management company. The Company has two
core product lines--retirement-oriented insurance products and investment
management products. Retirement-oriented insurance products consist
substantially of annuities. Investment management products consist of mutual
funds, wealth management and institutional asset management. The Company sells
its products through multiple distribution channels, including brokerage firms,
banks and other depository institutions, financial planners and insurance
agents, as well as directly to investors. The net operating income
(i.e., net income excluding net realized investment gains and losses, net of
related income taxes) was $112.4 million in 1997; $94.8 million in 1996 and
$76.5 million in 1995. The following table sets forth the assets
under management as of December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995:






 Assets Under Management
 As of December 31,
 1997 1996 1995
 (dollars in billions)
 
Retirement-oriented insurance
 products $ 12.8 $ 12.1 $ 10.6
Mutual funds 26.8 25.7 23.3
Wealth management 6.6 5.3 4.5
Institutional asset management 5.3 4.9 4.1
 Total $ 51.5 $ 48.0 $ 42.5
 

 Multiple Asset Accumulation Products. The Company sells a full range of
retirement-oriented insurance products, grouped by whether they provide fixed,
indexed or variable returns to policyholders. Substantially all of these
products currently are annuities that are written by the wholly-owned
subsidiary, Keyport Life Insurance Company ("Keyport"), one of the 
leading and most innovative annuity companies. Annuities are insurance products
which provide a tax-deferred means of accumulating savings for retirement
needs, as well as a tax-efficient source of income in the payout period. The
 principal fixed annuity products are individual single premium
deferred fixed annuities ("SPDAs"), which represented $8.4 billion of
policyholder liabilities as of December 31, 1997. In addition to SPDAs, the
Company also sells equity-indexed and variable annuities. Equity-indexed
annuities are an innovative product first introduced to the marketplace by the
Company when it began selling its KeyIndex[RegTM] product in 1995. The
 equity-indexed annuities credit interest to the policyholder at a
"participation rate" equal to a portion of the change in value of a specified
equity index (in the case of the equity-indexed products, the
Standard & 500 Composite Stock Index ("S&P 500 Index")).*

 The Company has four operating units engaged in investment management: The
Colonial Group, Inc. ("Colonial"), Stein Roe & Farnham Incorporated ("Stein
Roe"), Newport Pacific Management, Inc. ("Newport") and Liberty Asset
Management Company ("LAMCO"), each of which carries strong brand name
recognition in the markets it serves. As of December 31, 1997, the Company
sponsored 67 open-end mutual funds, as well as seven closed-end funds. The
open-end funds consist of 37 intermediary-distributed Colonial mutual funds, 18
direct-marketed Stein Roe funds and 12 other funds included among the
investment options available under the variable annuities. The
closed-end funds consist of five Colonial funds and two LAMCO funds.
Fifty-three of the 67 open-end mutual funds are long-term funds
(defined as open-end funds having at least a three-year performance record,
excluding funds that invest solely in money market securities). Thirty-eight of
those 53 funds (representing 81% of the total assets in those 53 funds as of
December 31, 1997) were ranked by Lipper Analytical Services, Inc. ("Lipper")
in the top two quartiles of their respective peer groups for the three-year
period ended that date.

*"S&P," "S&P 500" and "Standard & 500" are registered trademarks of The
McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and have been licensed for use by Keyport.


 1


 Multiple Distribution Channels. Liberty Financial sells its products
through multiple distribution channels. The Company distributes its products
through all the major third party intermediary channels, including national and
regional brokerage firms, banks and other depository institutions, financial
planners and insurance agents. To capitalize on the importance of banks and
other depository institutions as intermediaries for its products, the Company
also operates its own distribution unit which sells annuities and mutual funds
through such entities. Certain of the products also are sold directly
to investors, including its mutual funds sold without a sales load, wealth
management and institutional asset management products. The Company believes
that it is one of the few asset accumulators with a significant presence in
both the intermediary and direct channels. Total product sales for 1997 were
$7.5 billion (including $1.0 billion of reinvested dividends). During 1997, 59%
of sales were made through intermediary distributors, with the balance made
directly to the investor. Over 34,000 individual brokers and other
intermediaries sold Liberty Financial products in 1997.

 Business Strategy. The Company strategy has four interrelated
elements:

[bullet] Diversification. The Company believes that the
 diversification in its products and distribution channels allows it
 to accumulate assets in different market cycles, thereby reducing
 earnings volatility. Within its two core product lines, the Company
 sells a range of products that serve individuals at different stages
 of their life and earnings cycle. This mix also is designed to
 include products that will be in demand under a variety of economic
 and market conditions. Similarly, the Company reaches customers
 through a variety of distribution channels. Diversification of
 distribution channels allows the Company to reach many segments of
 the marketplace and lessens its dependence on any one source of
 assets.

[bullet] Innovation. Liberty Financial believes that product and
 distribution innovations are essential in order to grow its asset
 base and meet the ever changing financial needs of its customers.
 The Company believes that it has an impressive track record in such
 innovations. For example, Newport created the first U.S.-based
 mutual fund to focus exclusively on the "Tiger" countries of Asia.
 This fund had $1.0 billion of assets under management as of December
 31, 1997. The Stein Roe Young Investor[TM] Fund was the first mutual
 fund to be coupled with an educational program to teach young people
 about investing, while offering parents an excellent device to save
 for educational and other family needs. The Stein Roe Young Investor
 Fund had $533.2 million of assets under management and over 107,000
 shareholders of record as of December 31, 1997. The Company
 introduced the first equity-indexed annuity product to the
 marketplace. At December 31, 1997, the equity-indexed
 annuity policyholder balances were $1.5 billion. The Company is also
 recognized as a leader in electronic commerce on the Internet. For
 example, in early 1997, the Company introduced a new Web site for
 the Stein Roe funds which incorporates state-of-the-art security and
 customization features.

[bullet] Integration. Liberty Financial actively promotes
 integration of its operating units and believes that such efforts
 will enable it to accumulate additional assets by leveraging
 distribution capabilities and to reduce expenses by consolidating
 redundant back office functions. For example, upon the 
 acquisition of Newport in April, 1995, Colonial assumed the
 marketing, sales, service and administration of flagship
 Tiger Fund. The availability of the Newport Tiger Fund has
 facilitated new intermediary distribution relationships for
 Colonial, including approximately 6,000 new broker relationships.
 Stein Roe manages the majority of general account assets
 and together with Colonial and Newport manages certain of the funds
 underlying variable annuity products. transfer
 agency operations perform these functions for the Stein Roe funds.
 Independent Financial Marketing Group, Inc. ("Independent"), the
 bank distribution unit, was the largest distributor of
 annuities and the second largest distributor of the
 Colonial funds in 1997.

[bullet] Acquisitions. Where appropriate, the Company seeks
 acquisitions that provide additional assets, new or complementary
 investment management capabilities, distribution capabilities or
 other integration or diversification opportunities in its core
 product areas. Acquisitions are an integral part of Liberty
 Financial strategy. Stein Roe (acquired in 1986), Keyport
 (acquired in 1988), Colonial (acquired in 1995), Newport (acquired
 in 1995) and major components of the 


 2


 bank distribution unit (including Independent, acquired in 1996) all
 joined Liberty Financial by acquisition. The Company has also made
 asset acquisitions, including most recently a coinsurance agreement
 with respect to a $954.0 million block of SPDAs entered into in
 August, 1996. While the Company is constantly evaluating acquisition
 opportunities, as of the date it filed this Report with the
 Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company has not entered into
 any definitive agreement for a material acquisition.

The Company strategy is based on its belief that its products have
attractive growth prospects due to important demographic and economic trends.
These trends include the need for the aging baby boom generation to increase
savings and investment, lower public confidence in the adequacy of government
and employer-provided retirement benefits, longer life expectancies, and rising
health care costs. The Company believes that its product mix and distribution
strength are well suited to exploit these demographic and economic trends and
will help the Company maintain and enhance its position as a leading asset
accumulation and management company.

At March 20, 1998, approximately 72.3% of the combined voting power of Liberty
 voting stock was indirectly owned by Liberty Mutual Insurance
Company ("Liberty Mutual").

Liberty principal executive offices are located at 600 Atlantic
Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02210-2214. Its telephone number is (617)
722-6000.

Retirement-Oriented Insurance Products

 The Company sells a full range of retirement-oriented insurance products,
grouped by whether they provide fixed, indexed or variable returns to
policyholders. Substantially all of these products are annuities that are
written by Keyport. Annuities offer a tax-deferred means of accumulating
savings for retirement needs and provide a tax-efficient source of income in
the payout period. The Company earns spread income from fixed and indexed
annuities; variable annuities primarily produce fee income for the Company. The
 primary financial objectives for its annuities business are to
increase policyholder balances through new sales and asset retention and to
earn acceptable investment spreads on its fixed and indexed return products.

 Products

 The principal retirement-oriented insurance products are
categorized as follows:

[bullet] Fixed Annuities. The principal fixed annuity
 products are SPDAs. A SPDA policyholder typically makes a single
 premium payment at the time of issuance. The Company obligates
 itself to credit interest to the account at a rate
 that is guaranteed for an initial term (typically one year) and is
 reset annually thereafter, subject to a guaranteed minimum rate.
 Interest crediting continues until the policy is surrendered or the
 policyholder retires or turns age 90.

[bullet] Equity-Indexed Annuities. Equity-indexed annuities are an
 innovative product first introduced to the marketplace in 1995 by
 the Company when it began selling its KeyIndex product. The
 equity-indexed annuities credit interest to the
 policyholder at a "participation rate" equal to a portion (ranging
 for existing policies from 60% to 95%) of the change in value of a
 specified equity index. KeyIndex is currently offered for one, five
 and seven-year terms with interest earnings based on a percentage of
 the increase in the S&P 500 Index. With the five and seven-year
 terms, the interest earnings are based on the highest policy
 anniversary date value of the S&P 500 Index during the term.
 KeyIndex also provides a guarantee of principal at the end of the
 term. Thus, unlike a direct equity investment, even if the S&P 500
 Index declines there is no market risk to the 
 principal. In late 1996, the Company introduced a market value
 adjusted ("MVA") annuity product, KeySelect, which offers a choice
 between an equity-indexed account similar to KeyIndex and a fixed
 annuity-type interest account. KeySelect offers terms for each
 equity-indexed account of one, three, five, six and seven years, as
 well as a ten-year term for the fixed interest account. KeySelect
 shifts some investment risk to the policyholder, since surrender of
 the policy before the end of the policy term will result in
 increased or decreased account values based on the change in rates
 of designated Treasury securities since the beginning of the term.
 The Company is continuing to develop new versions of its
 equity-indexed annuities, including versions registered under the
 Securities Act which are designed to be sold through major national
 brokerage firms.


 3


[bullet] Variable Annuities. Variable annuities offer a selection of
 underlying investment alternatives which may satisfy a variety of
 policyholder risk/return objectives. Under a variable annuity, the
 policyholder has the opportunity to select separate account
 investment options (consisting of underlying mutual funds) which
 pass the investment risk directly to the policyholder in return for
 the potential of higher returns. Variable annuities also include
 guaranteed fixed interest options. The Keyport Advisor
 variable annuity currently offers 18 separate account investment
 choices (substantially all of the assets of which are managed by the
 Company) and four guaranteed fixed-interest options.

While the Company currently does not offer traditional life insurance products,
it manages a closed block of single premium whole life insurance policies
("SPWLs"), a retirement-oriented tax-advantaged life insurance product. The
Company discontinued sales of SPWLs in response to certain tax law changes in
the 1980s. The Company had SPWL policyholder balances of $2.0 billion as of
December 31, 1997.

Under the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), returns credited on annuities and
life insurance policies during the accumulation period (the period during which
interest or other returns are credited) are not subject to federal or state
income tax. Proceeds payable on death from a life insurance policy are also
free from such taxes. At the maturity or payment date of an annuity policy, the
policyholder is entitled to receive the original deposit plus accumulated
returns. The policyholder may elect to take this amount in either a lump sum or
an annuitized series of payments over time. The return component of such
payments is taxed at the time of receipt as ordinary income at the 
then applicable tax rate. The demand for the retirement-oriented
insurance products could be adversely affected by changes in this tax
treatment.

The mix of annuity products is designed to include products in demand
under a variety of economic and market conditions. Sales of SPDAs tend to be
sensitive to prevailing interest rates. Sales can be expected to increase and
surrenders to decrease in interest rate environments when SPDA rates are higher
than rates offered by competing conservative fixed return investments, such as
bank certificates of deposit. SPDA sales can be expected to decline and
surrenders to increase in interest rate environments when this differential in
rates is not present (as is the case at the date of filing of this Report).
SPDA sales also can be adversely affected by low interest rates (as is the case
at the date of filing of this Report).

The following table sets forth certain information regarding 
retirement-oriented insurance products and its reserves for the periods
indicated.




 As of or for the Year Ended
 December 31,
 1997 1996 1995
 (dollars in millions, except policy
 data)
 
Policy and Separate Account Liabilities:
Fixed annuities $ 8,417 $ 8,641 $ 7,772
Indexed annuities 1,527 788 84
Variable annuities 1,277 1,083 950
Life insurance 2,129 2,142 2,168
 Total $13,350 $12,654 $10,974
 Number of In Force Policies:
Fixed annuities 222,903 236,574 224,238
Indexed annuities 39,224 24,174 2,778
Variable annuities 27,429 25,177 25,037
Life insurance 24,921 26,850 28,489
 Total 314,477 312,775 280,542
 Average In Force Policy Amount:
Fixed annuities $37,710 $36,479 $34,611
Indexed annuities $38,943 $32,591 $30,207
Variable annuities $46,542 $43,035 $37,941
Life insurance $83,709 $79,207 $75,728


 4





 As of or for the Year Ended
 December 31,
 1997 1996 1995
 (dollars in millions, except policy data)
 
Premiums (statutory basis):
Fixed annuities $ 425 $ 493 $ 977
Indexed annuities 524 655 84
Variable annuities 173 97 80
Life insurance (net of reinsurance) -- 
 Total $1,121 $ 1,245 $1,140
 New Contracts and Policies:
Fixed annuities 13,744 11,358 30,043
Indexed annuities 16,076 21,396 2,778
Variable annuities 4,333 1,814 1,789
 Total 34,153 34,568 34,610
 Aggregate Amount Subject to Surrender Charges and
 Similar Penalties:
Fixed annuities $6,982 $ 7,371 $6,904
Indexed annuities $1,527 $ 788 $ 84
Withdrawals and Terminations (statutory basis):
Fixed Annuities:
 Death $ 60 $ 25 $ 15
 Maturity $ 110 $ 87 $ 76
 Surrender $1,000 $ 966 $ 693
Indexed Annuities:
 Death $ 4 $ 0.1 --
 Maturity -- -- --
 Surrender $ 19 $ 3 --
Variable Annuities:
 Death $ 4 $ 2 $ 0.4
 Maturity $ 28 $ 21 $ 14
 Surrender $ 105 $ 77 $ 92
Life Insurance:
 Death $ 66 $ 53 $ 54
 Surrender $ 96 $ 98 $ 95
Surrender Rates:
Fixed annuities 11.74% 11.79% 9.34%
Indexed annuities 1.68% 0.69% 0.12%
Variable annuities 8.86% 7.55% 10.46%
Life insurance 4.57% 4.58% 4.36%


 Sales and Asset Retention

 Product sales are influenced primarily by overall market conditions
impacting the attractiveness of the retirement-oriented insurance
products, and by product features including interest crediting and
participation rates, and innovations and services that distinguish the
 products from those of its competitors.


 The insurance products include important features designed to
promote both sales and asset retention, including crediting rates and surrender
charges. Initial interest crediting and participation rates on fixed and
indexed products significantly influence the sale of new policies. Resetting of
rates on SPDAs impacts retention of SPDA assets, particularly on policies where
surrender penalties have expired. At December 31, 1997, crediting rates on
95.0% of the in force SPDA policy liabilities


 5


were subject to reset during the succeeding 12 months. In setting crediting and
participation rates, the Company takes into account yield characteristics on
its investment portfolio, surrender rate assumptions and competitive industry
pricing. Interest crediting rates on the in force SPDAs ranged from
4.30% to 7.94% at December 31, 1997. Such policies had guaranteed minimum rates
ranging from 3.0% to 5.5% as of such date. Initial interest crediting rates on
new policies issued in 1997 ranged from 4.60% to 7.94%. Guaranteed minimum
rates on new policies issued during 1997 ranged from 3.0% to 5.5%.

 All of the insurance products permit the policyholder at anytime
to withdraw all or any part of the accumulated policy value. Premature
termination of a policy results in the loss by the Company of anticipated
future earnings related to the premium deposit and the accelerated recognition
of the expenses related to policy acquisition (principally commissions), which
otherwise are deferred and amortized over the life of the policy. Surrender
charges provide a measure of protection against premature withdrawal of policy
values. Substantially all of the insurance products currently are
issued with surrender charges or similar penalties. Such surrender charges for
all policies except KeyIndex typically start at 7% of the policy premium and
then decline to zero over a five- to seven-year period. KeyIndex imposes a
penalty on surrender of up to 10% of the premium deposit for the life of the
policy. At December 31, 1997, 83.0% of the SPDAs remained in the
surrender charge period. Surrender charges generally do not apply to
withdrawals by policyholders of, depending on the policy, either up to 10% per
year of the then accumulated value or the accumulated returns. In addition,
certain policies may provide for charge-free withdrawals in certain
circumstances and at certain times. All policies except for certain variable
annuities also are subject to "free look" risk (the legal right of the
policyholder to cancel the policy and receive back the initial premium deposit,
without interest, for a period ranging from ten days to one year, depending
upon the policy). To the extent a policyholder exercises the "free look"
option, the Company may realize a loss as a result of any investment losses on
the underlying assets during the free look period, as well as the commissions
paid on the sale of the policy. While SPWLs also permit withdrawal, the
withdrawal generally would produce significant adverse tax consequences to the
policyholder.

 strong financial ratings are important to its ability to
accumulate and retain assets. Keyport is rated "A+" (Superior) by A.M. Best,
"AA" (excellent financial security) by S&P, "A1" (good financial strength) by
 and AA- (very high claims paying ability) by Duff & Phelps. "A+" is
A.M. second highest rating. S&P raised rating from "AA-" to
"AA" in February, 1998. These ratings are based upon information supplied to
the rating agency by Keyport. These ratings reflect the opinion of the rating
agency as to the relative financial strength of Keyport and ability
to meet its contractual obligations to its policyholders. Such ratings are not
"market" ratings or recommendations to use or invest in Keyport or Liberty
Financial and should not be relied upon when making a decision to invest in the
Company. Many financial institutions and broker-dealers focus on the
claims-paying ability rating of an insurer in determining whether to market the
 annuities. If any of ratings were downgraded from their
current levels or if the ratings of competitors improved and
 did not, sales of products, the level of surrenders on
existing policies and the relationships with distributors could be
materially adversely affected. No assurance can be given that Keyport will be
able to maintain its financial ratings.

 Customer service also is essential to asset accumulation and retention.
The Company believes Keyport has a reputation for excellent service to its
distributors and its policyholders. Keyport has developed advanced technology
systems for immediate response to customer inquiries, and rapid processing of
policy issuances and commission payments (often at the point of sale). These
systems also play an important role in controlling costs. annualized
operating expenses for 1997 were 0.40% of assets, which reflects low
cost operations.

 General Account Investments

 Premium deposits on fixed and indexed annuities are credited to the
 general account investments (which at December 31, 1997 totaled $13.5
billion). General account investments include cash and cash equivalents. To
maintain its investment spreads at acceptable levels, the Company must earn
returns on its general account sufficiently in excess of the fixed or indexed
returns credited to policyholders. The key element of this investment process
is asset/liability management. Successful asset/liability


 6


management requires both a quantitative assessment of overall policy
liabilities (including maturities, surrenders and crediting of interest) and
prudent investment of general account assets. The two most important tools in
managing policy liabilities are setting crediting rates and establishing
surrender periods. The investment process requires portfolio techniques that
earn acceptable yields while effectively managing both interest rate risk and
credit risk. The Company emphasizes a conservative approach to asset/liability
management, which is oriented toward reducing downside risk in adverse markets,
as opposed to maximizing spread in favorable markets. The approach is also
designed to reduce earnings volatility. Various factors can impact the
 investment spread, including changes in interest rates and other
factors affecting the general account investments.


 The bulk of the general account investments are invested in
fixed maturity securities (83.3% at December 31, 1997). The principal
strategy for managing interest rate risk is to closely match the duration of
its general account investment portfolio and its policyholder balances. At
December 31, 1997, the duration of its fixed maturity portfolio was
approximately 2.9. The Company also employs hedging strategies to manage this
risk, including interest rate swaps and caps. In the case of equity-indexed
products, the Company purchases S&P 500 Index call options to hedge its
obligations to provide participation rate returns. Credit risk is managed by
careful credit analysis and monitoring. At December 31, 1997, the 
fixed maturity portfolio had an overall average S&P rating of A+. A portion of
general account investments (7.9% at December 31, 1997) are invested in below
investment grade fixed maturity securities to enhance overall portfolio yield.
Below investment grade securities pose greater risks than investment grade
securities. The Company actively manages its below investment grade portfolio
in an effort to optimize its risk/return profile. There were no non-income
producing investments in the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31,
1997. For a more detailed description of the management of the 
general account investments see " Discussion and Analysis of
Results of Operations and Financial Condition--Management of the 
Investments" beginning at page 31 of the 1997 Annual Report To
Shareholders (the "1997 Annual Report").


 Stein Roe manages the majority ($7.7 billion at December 31, 1997) of the
 general account investments. In addition, several unaffiliated
parties manage portions of its general account investments in order to obtain
diversification of investment styles and asset classes.


 The general account investments, all of which pertain to the
 annuity insurance operations, were comprised of the following as of
the dates indicated (in millions):





 As of
 December 31,
 1997 1996
 
Fixed maturities available for sale $11,246.5 $10,718.6
Mortgage loans 60.7 67.0
Policy loans 554.7 532.8
Other invested assets 440.8 183.6
Equity securities 40.8 35.9
 Investments 12,343.5 11,537.9
Cash and cash equivalents 1,162.4 767.4
 General account investments $ 13,505.9 $ 12,305.3
 

 As of December 31, 1997, the Company owned approximately $3.5 billion of
mortgage-backed securities (26.2% of its general account investments), 97.4% of
which were investment grade. Mortgage-backed securities are subject to
significant prepayment and extension risks, since the underlying mortgages may
be repaid more or less rapidly than scheduled.


 As of December 31, 1997, approximately $3.2 billion (23.8% of the
 general account investments) were invested in securities which were
sold without registration under the Securities Act and were not freely
tradeable under the Securities Act or which were otherwise illiquid. These
securities may be resold pursuant to an exemption from registration under the
Securities Act. If the Company sought


 7


to sell such securities, it might be unable to do so at the then current
carrying values and might have to dispose of such securities over extended
periods of time at uncertain levels.

Investment Management
 Liberty Financial has three types of investment management products:
mutual funds, wealth management, and institutional asset management. The
Company has four separate operating units engaged in investment management:
Colonial, Stein Roe, Newport and LAMCO. The primary financial
objectives with respect to its investment management businesses are to increase
assets under management in each of its three core products, and to improve
operating margins through increasing scale and cost savings produced by
integration.

 Products and Services

[bullet] Mutual Funds. As of December 31, 1997 the Company sponsors 67
 open-end mutual funds, as well as seven closed-end funds. The
 open-end funds include the 37 intermediary-distributed Colonial
 mutual funds, 18 direct-marketed Stein Roe funds and 12 other funds
 included among the investment options available under the 
 variable annuities. The closed-end funds include five Colonial funds
 and two LAMCO funds. At December 31, 1997, total mutual fund assets
 were $26.8 billion. At December 31, 1997, 49.5% of these assets were
 invested in equity funds, 26.3% in taxable fixed income funds and
 24.2% in tax-exempt fixed income funds. The Company seeks to increase
 equity mutual fund assets, which generally carry higher fees than
 funds that invest in fixed income securities.

[bullet] Wealth Management. At December 31, 1997, the Company managed $6.6
 billion in investment portfolios for high net worth individuals and
 families and smaller institutional investors, all of which are
 managed by Stein Roe.

[bullet] Institutional Asset Management. At December 31, 1997, the Company
 managed $5.3 billion of investment portfolios for institutional
 investors such as insurance companies, public and private retirement
 funds, endowments, foundations and other institutions. Most of these
 assets are managed by Stein Roe. Stein Roe also manages the majority
 of general account assets supporting insurance
 products. See "--Retirement-Oriented Insurance Products--General
 Account Investments."

 The investment management business focuses on managing the
investments of each portfolios in accordance with the 
investment objectives and policies. The Company also provides related
administrative and support services to clients, such as portfolio pricing,
accounting and reporting. Investment management fees and related administrative
and support fees generally are charged as a percentage of assets under
management. Client accounts are managed pursuant to a written agreement which,
with limited exceptions, is terminable at any time upon relatively short notice
(typically 30-60 days).

 In the case of mutual fund clients, all services provided by the Company
are subject to the supervision of the Board of Trustees. Additional
administrative services provided to mutual funds include provision of office
space, other facilities and XX, marketing and distribution services, and
transfer agency and other shareholder support services. Investment management
fees paid by a mutual fund must be approved annually by the Board of
Trustees, including a majority of the independent Trustees. Any increases in
such fees also must be approved by fund shareholders. Most of the 
mutual fund assets are held in open-end funds. Shareholders of open-end funds
generally can redeem their shares on any business day.

 The direct-market mutual funds are sold without a sales load.
The intermediary- distributed mutual funds generally offer investors
a choice of three pricing options: a traditional front-end load option, in
which the investor pays a sales charge at the time of purchase; a
contingent deferred sales charge, in which the investor pays no sales charge at
the time of purchase, but is subject to an asset-based sales charge paid by the
fund generally for eight years after purchase and a declining contingent
deferred sales charge paid by the investor if shares are redeemed generally
within six years after purchase; and a level-load option, in which the
investor pays a small initial sales


 8


charge, and is subject to an on-going asset-based sales charge paid by the fund
and a small contingent deferred sales charge paid by the investor if shares are
redeemed within one year after purchase. Colonial is a party to a revolving
credit facility with certain lenders, pursuant to which such lenders have
agreed to lend up to $60.0 million to Colonial to finance the sale of shares of
the mutual funds sponsored by Colonial which have contingent deferred sales
charges.


 The following tables present certain information regarding the 
assets under management as of or for each year in the three-year period ended
December 31, 1997. Such information includes assets (including its
general account investments managed by Stein Roe, as well as loans to
policyholders and general account investments managed by unaffiliated
investment managers). In addition, certain information is provided separately
for mutual fund assets.





 As of December 31,
 1997 1996 1995
 Total Assets Under Management (dollars in billions)
 
Mutual funds:
 Intermediary-distributed $ 16.1 $ 16.1 $ 15.7
 Direct-marketed 7.2 6.6 4.8
 Closed-end 2.2 1.9 1.8
 Variable annuity 1.3 1.1 1.0
 Total mutual funds 26.8 25.7 23.3
Wealth management 6.6 5.3 4.5
Institutional asset management 5.3 4.9 4.1
Retirement-oriented insurance products 12.8 12.1 10.6
 Total $ 51.5 $ 48.0 $ 42.5
 




 As of December 31,
 Total Assets Under Management 1997 1996 1995
 By Asset Class (dollars in billions)
 
Fee-based assets:
 Equity $ 18.2 $ 16.1 $ 11.4
 Fixed-income 20.5 19.8 20.5
 Total fee-based assets 38.7 35.9 31.9
Retirement-oriented insurance products 12.8 12.1 10.6
 Total $ 51.5 $ 48.0 $ 42.5
 

 Balanced funds are classified as equity funds; all categories include cash
 and other short-term investments in applicable portfolios.





 As of December 31,
 Total Mutual Fund Assets Under 1997 1996 1995
 Management By Asset Class (dollars in billions)
 
Equity funds $ 13.3 $ 12.1 $ 8.6
Fixed-income funds:
 Taxable 7.0 7.0 7.4
 Tax-exempt 6.5 6.6 7.3
 Total $ 26.8 $ 25.7 $ 23.3
 

 Balanced funds are classified as equity funds; all categories include cash
 and other short-term investments in applicable portfolios.


 9





 For the Year Ended December 31,
 Total Assets Under Management-- 1997 1996 1995
 Asset Flow Summary (dollars in billions)
 
Assets under management--beginning $ 48.0 $ 42.5 $ 25.6
Sales and reinvestments 7.5 8.6 5.8
Redemptions and withdrawals ( 7.8) ( 6.9) ( 9.4)
Asset acquisitions -- 1.2 14.9
Net insurance cash flows 0.7 0.7 0.6
Market appreciation 3.1 1.9 5.0
 Assets under management--ending $ 51.5 $ 48.0 $ 42.5
 

Sales and Asset Retention

The Company believes that the most important factors in accumulating and
retaining investment management assets are investment performance, customer
service and brand name recognition. Strong investment performance is crucial to
asset accumulation and retention, regardless of the product or distribution
channel. Performance is particularly important for mutual funds, whether
intermediary-distributed or direct-marketed. Fifty-three of the 67
open-end mutual funds were long-term funds as of December 31,1997 (defined as
open-end funds having at least a three-year performance record, excluding funds
that invest solely in money market securities). Thirty-eight of those 53 funds
(representing 81% of the total assets in those 53 funds as of December 31,
1997) were ranked by Lipper in the top two quartiles of their respective peer
groups for the three-year period ended that date. The Company believes that
over time, more sophisticated tools, such as those employed by consultants to
institutional investors, will become available to consumers for analyzing
mutual fund performance and risk. The investment performance must
remain competitive for the Company to continue to grow investment management
product sales and assets.

Excellent service to investors and distributors is a prerequisite to asset
retention. Excellent service to its distributors was a factor in the 
decision to acquire Colonial. In November, 1997, Dalbar, Inc., an independent
research and publishing company covering the mutual fund industry, XX
Colonial the top-ranked mutual fund group for marketing and operational support
in its annual survey of broker-dealers.

The Company believes that, in light of the proliferation of mutual funds and
investment managers, strong brand name recognition in relevant distribution
channels is essential to asset accumulation and retention, particularly with
respect to mutual funds. The Company believes that the Colonial name carries
strong brand name recognition among brokers and other intermediaries selling
mutual funds, and that the Stein Roe name carries similar recognition in the
direct sales channel. Similarly, the Company believes that Stein Roe has a
franchise presence in the wealth management market and that Newport is a
recognized leader in investments in the Asian markets.

Sales of mutual funds and other investment management products are subject to
market forces, such as changes in interest rates and stock market performance.
Changes in the financial markets, including significant increases or decreases
in interest rates or stock prices, can increase or decrease fund sales and
redemptions, as well as the values of assets in such portfolios, all of which
impact investment management fees.

Distribution
 Liberty Financial sells its products through multiple distribution
channels. Total product sales during 1997 were $7.5 billion (including $1.0
billion of reinvested dividends and similar reinvested returns). During 1997
59% of these sales were made through intermediary distributors, with the
balance made directly to the investor. Over 34,000 individual brokers and other
intermediaries sold Liberty Financial products in 1997.

 Distribution Through Intermediaries

 The Company sells both annuities and mutual funds through various
intermediaries, including national and regional brokerage firms, banks and
other depository institutions, financial planners and


 10


insurance agents. The annuities and mutual funds are most often sold
to middle and upper-middle class investors and savers. Many of these
individuals seek the help of an investment professional in selecting investment
and retirement income and savings products. In each of these intermediary
channels, the Company provides products, as well as promotional materials and
other support services.


 Reflecting its diversification strategy, the Company maintains
distribution relationships with several different types of intermediaries.
Intermediary-distributed mutual funds and annuities historically have been
distributed through brokerage firms and insurance agents. Banks and financial
planners also have become significant distributors of these products.


 The Company employs wholesalers and other sales professionals to promote
sales of its intermediary-distributed products. These representatives meet with
intermediaries' sales forces to educate them on matters such as product
objectives, features, performance records and other key selling points. The
Company also produces marketing material designed to help intermediaries sell
the products, and provides after-sale support to both the
intermediaries and their customers. The degree and mix of these services vary
with the requirements of the particular intermediary.


 The Company was a pioneer in selling through banks, both in terms of
helping banks develop marketing programs and in establishing wholesaling
relationships with banks. Liberty Financial operates a sales unit, Independent,
that sells mutual funds and annuities through banks. The Company acquired
Independent in March, 1996. Since the acquisition, the Company has consolidated
its prior bank sales unit, the Liberty Financial Bank Group, with Independent.
These businesses design and implement programs that sell annuities and mutual
funds through their client banks, license and train sales XX, and
provide related financial services and administrative support. Program
structures and the degree of the involvement vary widely depending
upon the particular needs of each bank. In some cases, the bank provides space
in its branches and the Company places its own sales representatives in that
space and fully operates the program. Products sold include the 
proprietary products, as well as non-proprietary products (including in some
cases the proprietary mutual funds). In other cases, the role
may be limited to functions such as licensing and training the employees
and wholesaling products. At December 31, 1997, Independent had over 100 bank
relationships involving over 3,100 registered salespersons.


 The proliferation of competing products and the market presence of certain
large competitors requires the Company to compete to establish and maintain
distribution relationships and to maintain "shelf space" with distributors.
Many of the larger distributors have begun to reduce the number of companies
for whom they distribute. Product features, relative performance, pricing and
support services to distributors and their customers are important factors in
competing for distribution relationships. Some distributors assess fee sharing
payments or similar charges as additional compensation for fund sales. The
Company can be confronted with the choice of absorbing these charges or
limiting its access to certain distributors. An interruption in the 
continuing relationship with certain of these distributors could materially
adversely affect the ability to sell its products. There can be no
assurance that the Company would be able to find alternative sources of
distribution in a timely manner.


 The sales practices and support needs of the distributors are
constantly evolving. The Company must respond to these changes in order to
maintain and grow its intermediary distribution relationships. Pricing
structures in these channels, particularly with respect to mutual funds, have
expanded in recent years from one-time up-front sales loads to add options that
shift investors' payments over time and move somewhat toward fee-based pricing.
The intermediary-distributed mutual funds now are sold with alternate
pricing structures. Intermediaries also increasingly demand that product
providers supply new value-added services.


 Direct Distribution


 The direct-marketed mutual funds, as well as its wealth
management and institutional asset management services, are sold directly to
investors. The directed-marketed mutual funds are purchased
predominantly by middle and upper-middle class investors and savers who choose


 11


to select their own funds and who wish to avoid paying sales loads and similar
fees. Wealth management clients typically are high net worth individuals and
families. Institutional asset management clients typically are larger
institutional investors managed by in-house professional staffs that select and
oversee asset managers, often with the advice of third party consultants.

 In each of the direct sales markets served by the Company, investment
performance is essential to generating sales and retaining customers. Mutual
fund sales also require robust marketing campaigns using print, radio and
television advertising and direct mail that highlight performance and other
selling points. The Company believes that certain technology-based customer
service and support tools it is developing, including on-line account access
and interactive illustrative investment tools, can become important devices in
accumulating and retaining assets in the direct distribution channels. Stein
 reputation as a high quality asset manager is the most important factor
in generating new wealth and institutional asset management clients. Active
management of the client relationship, including frequent personal contacts, is
necessary to retain these clients.

 So-called "mutual fund supermarkets," such as Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.
OneSource[RegTM], have become an important source of customers for
direct-marketed mutual funds. During 1997, 38% of the total new sales of the
Stein Roe mutual funds were through mutual fund supermarkets and similar
arrangements. To access these marketplaces, the Company pays the supermarket
sponsor a fee based upon a percentage of mutual fund assets held by supermarket
customers in return for certain services provided by the supermarket sponsor,
such as omnibus shareholder accounting. Financial planners and similar
unaffiliated advisors sometimes serve as sources of referrals for wealth
management clients, in some cases in return for referral fees or other
compensation.


Industry Segment Information
 Liberty Financial conducts its business in two industry segments: annuity
insurance and asset management. Annuity insurance operations relate primarily
to the fixed, indexed and variable annuities and its closed-block of
SPWLs. Asset management operations relate to its mutual funds, wealth
management and institutional asset management products. For information on
these industry segments, see Note 11 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company contained in the 1997 Annual Report.


Regulation

 Overview

 The Company activities are extensively regulated. The following
briefly summarizes the principal regulatory requirements and certain related
matters. The regulatory requirements applicable to the Company include, among
other things, regulation of the form and in certain cases the XXof
the products, (ii) regulation of the manner in which those products
are sold and (iii) compliance oversight of the Company units,
including frequent reporting obligations to and inspections by regulators.
Changes in or the failure by the Company to comply with applicable law and
regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

 Annuity Insurance

 The retirement-oriented insurance products generally are issued
as individual policies. The policy is a contract between the issuing insurance
company and the policyholder. Policy forms, including all principal contract
terms, are regulated by state law. In most cases, the policy form must be
approved by the insurance department or similar agency of a state in order for
the policy to be sold in that state.

 Keyport issues most of the retirement-oriented insurance
products. Independence Life & Annuity Company ("Independence Life") and
American Benefit Life Insurance Company, to be reXX "Keyport Benefit Life
Insurance Company" on or about April 1, 1998 ("Keyport Benefit"), Keyport
subsidiaries, also issue certain policies. Keyport and Independence Life are
each chartered in the state of Rhode Island, and the Rhode Island Department Regulation is their primary oversight regulator. Keyport Benefit is
chartered in the state of New York, and the New York Department


 12


of Insurance is its primary oversight regulator. Keyport Benefit, acquired by
Keyport in January, 1998, operates exclusively in New York and Rhode Island.
Keyport and Independence Life also must be licensed by the state insurance
regulators in each other jurisdiction in which they conduct business. They
currently are licensed to conduct business in 49 states (the exception being
New York), and in the District of Columbia. State insurance laws generally
provide regulators with broad powers related to issuing licenses to transact
business, regulating marketing and other trade practices, operating guaranty
associations, regulating certain premium rates, regulating insurance holding
company systems, establishing reserve requirements, prescribing the form and
XXof required financial statements and reports, performing financial and
other examinations, determining the reasonableness and adequacy of statutory
capital and surplus, regulating the type and amount of investments permitted,
limiting the amount of dividends that can be paid and the size of transactions
that can be consummated without first obtaining regulatory approval, and other
related matters. The regulators also make periodic examinations of individual
companies and review annual and other reports on the financial conditions of
all companies operating within their respective jurisdictions.

 Keyport prepares its statutory-basis financial statements in accordance
with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the Rhode Island
Department Regulation. Certain statutory accounting practices are
prescribed by state law. Permitted statutory accounting practices encompass all
accounting practices that are not proscribed; such practices may differ between
the states and companies within a state. The National Association of Insurance
Commissioners (the "NAIC") is currently in the process of codifying statutory
accounting practices, the result of which is expected to constitute the only
source of prescribed statutory accounting practices. That project, which is
expected to be completed in 1998 may result in changes to the accounting
practices that Keyport uses to prepare its statutory-basis financial
statements. The impact of any such changes on statutory surplus
cannot be determined at this time. No assurance can be given that such changes
would not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

 Risk-Based Capital Requirements. In recent years, various states have
adopted new quantitative standards promulgated by the NAIC. These standards are
designed to reduce the risk of insurance company insolvencies, in part by
providing an early warning of financial or other difficulties. These standards
include the risk-based capital ("RBC") requirements. RBC requirements
attempt to measure statutory capital and surplus needs based on the risks in a
 mix of products and investment portfolio. The requirements provide
for four different levels of regulatory attention which implement increasing
levels of regulatory control (ranging from development of an action plan to
mandatory receivership). As of December 31, 1997, capital and surplus
exceeded the level at which the least severe of these regulatory attention
levels would be triggered.


 Guaranty Fund Assessments. Under the insurance guaranty fund laws existing
in each state, insurers can be assessed for certain obligations of insolvent
insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Because assessments
typically are not made for several years after an insurer fails, Keyport cannot
accurately determine the precise amount or timing of its exposure to known
insurance company insolvencies at this time. For certain information regarding
 historical and estimated future assessments in respect of insurance
guaranty funds, see Note 16 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. The insolvency of large life insurance companies in future years
could result in material assessments to Keyport by state guaranty funds. No
assurance can be given that such assessments would not have a material adverse
effect on the Company.


 Insurance Holding Company Regulation. Current Rhode Island insurance law
imposes prior approval requirements for certain transactions with affiliates
and generally regulates dividend payments by a Rhode Island-chartered insurance
subsidiary to its parent company. Keyport may not make distributions or
dividend payments, together with distributions and dividends paid during the
preceding 12 months, in excess of the lesser of 10% of its statutory
surplus as of the preceding December 31 or (ii) its statutory net gain from
operations for the preceding fiscal year without prior approval by the Rhode
Island Department Regulation. As of December 31, 1997, such
restriction would limit dividends without such approval to $70.3 million.
However, Keyport has not paid any dividends since its acquisition in December,
1988. In addition, no person or group may acquire, directly or indirectly, 10%


 13


or more of the voting stock or voting power of Liberty Financial unless such
person has provided such required information to the Rhode Island Department Regulation and such acquisition is approved by the Department.

 General Regulation at Federal Level and Certain Related Matters. Although
the federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance
business, federal initiatives often have an impact on the business in a variety
of ways. Current and proposed federal measures that may significantly affect
the insurance business include limitations on antitrust immunity, minimum
solvency requirements and the removal of barriers restricting banks from
engaging in the insurance business. In particular, several proposals to repeal
or modify the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (which prohibits banks from
being affiliated with insurance companies) have been made by members of
Congress and the Clinton Administration. Moreover, the United States Supreme
Court held in 1995 in NationsBank of North Carolina v. Variable Annuity Life
Insurance Company that annuities are not insurance for purposes of the National
Bank Act. In addition, the Supreme Court also held in 1995 in Barnett Bank of
Marion City v. Nelson that state laws prohibiting national banks from selling
insurance in small town locations are preempted by federal law. The Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency adopted a ruling in November 1996 that permits
national banks, under certain circumstances, to expand into other financial
services, thereby increasing competition for the Company. At present, the
extent to which banks can sell insurance and annuities without regulation by
state insurance departments is being litigated in various courts in the United
States. Although the effect of these recent developments on the Company and its
competitors is uncertain, there can be no assurance that such developments
would not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

 Asset Management Products

 The primary sources of regulation of the asset management
operations are the federal securities laws. Asset management products are
subject to the Advisers Act. The mutual funds and closed-end funds sponsored by
the Company also are subject to the Investment Company Act. Mutual fund shares
are securities, and, as such, must be registered under the federal securities
laws. The foregoing laws impose various restrictions on the asset
management products, including fee structures, the timing and XXof
advertising, and, in the case of the funds, certain investment restrictions.
Mutual funds also must be managed to comply with certain other investment
restrictions imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. Accounts subject to the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA") must comply with
certain investment and other restrictions imposed by ERISA.

 The subsidiaries directly engaged in asset management (including
Colonial, Stein Roe, Newport and LAMCO) are registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the "SEC") as investment advisers under the Advisers Act.
They also are subject to the Investment Company Act insofar as it relates to
investment advisers to registered investment companies. These securities laws
and the related regulations of the SEC require reporting, maintenance of books
and records in prescribed forms, mandatory custodial arrangements, approval of
employees and representatives and other compliance procedures. Possible
sanctions in the event of noncompliance include the suspension of individual
employees, limitations on the engaging for specified periods
of time, revocation of the registrations, censures and fines.

 In the ordinary course of its investment management business, the Company
enters into investment advisory agreements with mutual funds and others. As
required by the Investment Company Act and the Advisers Act, Liberty
 investment advisory agreements provide that the agreements
terminate automatically upon their "assignment." The Investment Company Act and
the Advisers Act define the term "assignment" to include any "direct or
indirect transfer" of a "controlling block of the voting securities" of the
 outstanding voting securities. The Investment Company Act presumes
that any person holding more than 25% of the voting stock of any person
"controls" such person. Sales by Liberty Mutual or other stockholders or new
issuances of capital stock by Liberty Financial, among other things, may raise
issues relating to assignments of the investment advisory agreements.
The Restated Articles include provisions limiting the voting power of shares of
the Voting Stock held by holders of 20% or more of such Voting Stock
in certain circumstances. These provisions do not apply to Liberty Mutual,
subsidiaries or affiliates of Liberty Mutual, direct or indirect subsidiaries
of the Company and certain employee plans established or to be established by
the Company or certain of its subsidiaries. Liberty Board of


 14


Directors may approve the exemption of other persons or groups from the
provisions described above. While this voting limitation is in place to reduce
the likelihood, under certain circumstances, of inadvertent terminations of
Liberty advisory agreements as a result of "assignments" thereof,
there can be no assurances that this limitation will prevent such a termination
from occurring. In addition, such limitation could be deemed to have an
anti-takeover effect and to make changes in management more difficult.

 Several proposals to repeal or modify the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933
(which restricts banks from engaging in securities-related businesses) have
been made by members of Congress and the Clinton Administration. Although the
effect that any such proposals if adopted would have on the Company and its
competitors is uncertain, there can be no assurance that such proposals if
adopted would not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

 Distribution

 Sales of the annuities and mutual funds are also subject to
extensive regulation. Annuities must be sold through an entity registered as an
insurance agency in the particular state. The sales person must be properly
licensed under state insurance law. Variable annuities and certain indexed
annuities also require the sales person to be registered with the National
Association of Securities Dealers ("NASD") and the applicable state securities
commission. Mutual fund shares must be sold through an entity registered as a
broker-dealer under the Exchange Act and applicable state law. The sales person
must be registered with the NASD and the applicable state securities
commission.

 Various business units of the Company are registered as broker-dealers.
These include certain units which operate the bank marketing
business, as well as other units through which mutual fund and certain
annuities are sold. Certain bank marketing units also are registered as
insurance agencies in states where they sell annuities. These laws regulate the
licensing of sales XX and sales practices. They impose minimum net
capital requirements. They also impose reporting, records maintenance, and
other requirements, and provide for penalties in the event of non-compliance,
similar in scope to the regulations applicable to asset managers.

 Certain securities sales through the bank marketing units are
conducted in accordance with the provisions of a "no-action" letter issued by
the staff of the Commission requiring, among other things, that securities
sales activities be conducted by sales XX who are registered
representatives of the Company and are subject to its supervision and control.
The letter limits the functions of non-registered bank XX to ministerial
duties. The letter is not binding on the courts, however, and no assurance can
be given that the Commission will not change its position.

 Banks are an important distribution channel for the annuities
and mutual funds. The recent growth in sales of mutual funds, annuities and
other investment and insurance products through or at banks and similar
institutions has prompted increased scrutiny by federal bank regulators, the
SEC and other regulators. Regulations promulgated by federal banking
authorities impose additional restrictions and duties with respect to bank
sales practices, including obligations to disclose that the products are not
subject to deposit insurance.


Competition


 The Companyes operate in extremely competitive markets. These
markets are highly fragmented, although in the case of annuities and mutual
funds, a few companies do have relatively substantial market shares. Certain of
the competitors are significantly larger and have access to
significantly greater financial and other resources.


 The products compete with every other investment or savings
vehicle available to a prospective customer, including those offered by other
insurance companies, investment management firms and banks. The Company
believes that the most important competitive factor affecting the marketability
of its products is the degree to which they meet customer expectations, both in
terms of returns (after fees and expenses) and service. These competitive
pressures apply to competition for customers in general, as well as competition
to access and maintain distribution relationships, in the case of products sold
through intermediaries. Product and service innovations also are important
devices for


 15


generating new sales and maintaining distribution relationships. Sales of
particular products may be affected by conditions in the financial markets,
such as increases or decreases in interest rates or stock prices.

 Product features of particular relevance to annuities include interest
crediting and participation rates, surrender charges and innovation in product
design. Maintenance of financial ratings also is important. The
Company believes that the most important factors affecting competition for
investment management clients are investment performance, customer service and
brand name recognition. Pricing policies and product innovations also are
important competitive factors. The ability to increase and retain
clients' assets could be materially adversely affected if client accounts
underperform the market or competing products or if key investment managers
leave the Company. The ability of the asset management subsidiaries
to compete with other asset management products also is dependent, in part, on
the relative attractiveness of their underlying investment philosophies and
methods under prevailing market conditions.

Employees

 As of December 31, 1997, the Company had 2,050 full-time employees
summarized by activity as follows: 412 in annuity insurance operations; 1,130
in asset management activities; 459 in marketing and distribution operations;
and 49 in general corporate. The Company provides its employees with a broad
range of employee benefit programs. The Company believes that its relations
with its employees are excellent.

YEAR 1999, CIK 804269, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

 AFS Funding Corp. is a wholly-owned bankruptcy-remote subsidiary of
 AmeriCredit Financial Services, Inc.; AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables
 Trust 1997-D is a bankruptcy-remote Delaware Business Trust. The Trust was
 formed solely for the purpose of acquiring from AFS Funding Corp. certain
 motor vehicle retail installment sales contracts (the "Contracts") and
 interests in the automobiles underlying the contracts, and securitizing the
 contracts through the issuance of debt securities (the "Notes"). As
 bankruptcy-remote entities, AFS Funding Corp. and the Trust are restricted
 so that they do not engage with, or incur liabilities to,
 any other entity (other than the Trustee on behalf of the holders of the
 Notes) which may bring bankruptcy proceedings against AFS Funding Corp. or
 the Trust and the risk that they will be consolidated into the
 bankruptcy proceedings of any other entity is diminished. AFS Funding
 Corp. and the Trust have no other assets other than the Contracts and an
 interest in the automobiles underlying the Contracts, and proceeds thereof.

YEAR 1998, CIK 877355, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company

 LandAmerica Financial Group, Inc. (formerly Lawyers Title Corporation)
(the "Company") is a holding company organized under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Virginia on June 24, 1991. The principal subsidiary
during 1997, Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation ("Lawyers Title"), has been
engaged since 1925 primarily in the title insurance business through its network
of branches, service offices, subsidiaries and agencies. On February 27, 1998,
the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of
Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company and Transnation Title Insurance
Company ("Commonwealth/Transnation"). See "Recent Acquisition" and of
Commonwealth/Transnation" below. As a holding company, the Company has greater
flexibility in conducting certain operations, especially with regard to capital
transactions, while the operating title insurance subsidiaries remain subject to
regulation by the various states. See "Regulation" below.

Lawyers Title

 Lawyers Title was founded in 1925 in Richmond, Virginia. It soon
expanded into other southeast states and by 1934 had become the largest title
insurance company in the South, with over 3,000 approved attorneys and agents.
Branches and agents were added gradually in other states, and the post-World War
II years promoted substantial growth of Lawyers Title. The business continued to
expand nationally and into U.S. possessions and Canada. By the early 1960s,
Lawyers operations covered the entire country (with the exception of
Iowa, which does not recognize title insurance).

 In the 1970s, Lawyers Title purchased two title underwriters, Mid-South
Title Insurance Corporation ("Mid-South Title"), headquartered in Memphis,
Tennessee, and Land Title Insurance Company ("Land Title"), headquartered in
California. In the 1980s, Lawyers Title combined its California operations,
improving its service and operations in the state which provides the single
largest source of premium revenue for the title insurance industry. California
World Financial Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiary, California - World
Title Company, merged into an entity then known as Continental Land Title
Company, which ultimately became a subsidiary of Lawyers Title, with operations
in California, Oregon and Arizona. In 1997, the name was changed from
"Continental Lawyers Title Company" to "Lawyers Title Company."

 In 1994, Lawyers Title purchased two additional title underwriters,
Oregon Title Insurance Company ("Oregon Title"), headquartered in Portland,
Oregon, and Title Insurance Company of America ("TICA"), headquartered in
Dallas, Texas. Effective December 1, 1995, TICA was merged into Mid-South Title,
whose name was changed to Title Insurance Company of America (hereinafter "TICA"
refers to such surviving corporation).

 Lawyers Title has its National Headquarters offices at 6630 West Broad
Street, Richmond, Virginia 23230. Its telephone number is (804) 281-6700. Unless
the context otherwise requires, Lawyers Title, as used herein, refers to Lawyers
Title and each of its branches, service offices, subsidiaries and agencies.

 -2-


General

 Lawyers Title is engaged in the business of providing title insurance
and related services. In addition to writing title insurance, in some states
Lawyers Title furnishes certificates of title and abstracts of title. As an
incident to the issuance of title insurance, Lawyers Title also offers a closing
protection letter to lenders and owners who purchase title insurance, and in
some areas it also serves as an escrow agent in closing real estate
transactions.

 Most title insurance policies sold by Lawyers Title and its
subsidiaries are underwritten by Lawyers Title; however, title insurance
policies are also underwritten by Oregon Title in Oregon, and TICA is licensed
and qualified to underwrite policies in Texas, Tennessee, Florida, Ohio,
Georgia, Louisiana, Alabama, Arkansas, Virginia, Michigan, Illinois, Colorado,
New Mexico, Indiana, Maryland, District of Columbia and Kentucky. Land Title
only reissues policies it has previously issued. Policies previously issued by
Mid-South Title remain in effect in Tennessee, Mississippi, Arkansas, Alabama,
Florida, Georgia and Louisiana.

 Lawyers Title is conducted in 49 states and in the District
of Columbia, the territories of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the
Bahamas and a number of Canadian provinces. Geographical coverage is provided by
Lawyers nationwide network of 14 National Division offices and
approximately 260 branch and closing/escrow offices. In addition, Lawyers Title
has approximately 3,800 independent agents and 36,000 approved attorneys.

 Title insurance policies are written through and issued by branch
offices of Lawyers Title and its underwriting subsidiaries, by title insurance
agents or by some combination thereof. Agencies may be either independently
owned or subsidiaries of Lawyers Title. In the western states, Lawyers Title
operates primarily through independent agents and subsidiaries (Lawyers Title
Company, American Title Group, Inc., Lawyers Title of Arizona, Inc. and Oregon
Title), while its eastern operations are conducted through branch offices,
agents and approved attorneys. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997,
approximately 53.2% of total title insurance revenues were derived from direct
operations (company branches and wholly owned subsidiary agencies) and 46.8%
came from independent agents. As of December 31, 1997, no single independent
agent was the source of more than 5% of the title insurance revenues of Lawyers
Title.

 Lawyers Title and its subsidiaries also provide escrow services to
customers in various areas of the country. Primarily in the western states, it
is a general practice, incident to the issuance of title insurance policies, to
hold funds and documents in escrow for delivery in real estate transactions upon
fulfillment of the conditions to such delivery. In the mid-western states,
Florida and some eastern cities, it is customary for the title company to close
the transaction and disburse the sale or loan proceeds. Fees for such escrow and
closing services are generally separate and distinct from the title insurance
premiums.

 Lawyers Title has two wholly owned subsidiaries devoted to computer
automation of various aspects of the title insurance business, including on-line
title plants, policy issuance and closing documentation and support functions.
These are Datatrace Information Services Company, Inc. and Elliptus Software
Solutions, Inc. Another subsidiary, Lawyers Title Exchange Company, facilitates
tax-free property exchanges pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue
Code by holding the sale proceeds from one transaction until a second
acquisition occurs, thereby assisting customers in deferring the recognition of
taxable income.

 In 1996, Lawyers Title formed a new subsidiary, Lawyers Title Services
Company, Inc. ("LTSC") to coordinate residential real estate transactions for
national lenders and to provide other real estate related products and services
(such as appraisals, tax services, flood certification, surveys, and document
preparation) through a single source. LTSC is currently qualified in 22 



states. Also in 1996, Lawyers Title, through a newly formed subsidiary, Global
Corporate Services, Inc. acquired a 50% ownership interest in Argonaut
Relocation Services, LLC ("Argonaut") a Michigan limited liability company.
Argonaut, which employs approximately 120 individuals, offers a full line of
employee relocation services to companies moving employees anywhere in the
world.

Title Insurance

 In general, title insurance policies indemnify the insured from losses
resulting from certain outstanding liens, encumbrances and other defects in
title to real property that appear as matters of public record, and from certain
other matters not of public record. Many of the principal customers of title
insurance companies buy insurance for the accuracy and reliability of the title
search as well as for the indemnity features of the policy. The beneficiaries of
title insurance policies are generally owners or buyers of real property or
parties who make loans on the security of real property. An policy
protects the XX insured against title defects, liens and encumbrances
existing as of the date of the policy and not specifically excluded or excepted
from its provisions, while a policy, in addition to the foregoing,
insures against the invalidity of the lien of the insured mortgage and insures
the priority of the lien as stated in the title policy.

 Lawyers Title issues title insurance policies on the basis of a title
report, which is prepared pursuant to underwriting guidelines prescribed in
manuals published by Lawyers Title, after a search of the public records, maps
and documents to ascertain the existence of easements, restrictions, rights of
way, conditions, encumbrances, liens or other matters affecting the title to, or
use of, real property. In certain instances, a visual inspection of the property
is also made. Title examinations may be made by branch employees, agency
XX or approved attorneys, whose reports are utilized by or rendered to a
branch or agent and are the basis for the issuance of policies by such branch or
agent.

 In the case of difficult or unusual legal or underwriting issues
involving potential title risks, the branch office or agent is instructed to
consult with a supervising Lawyers Title office. Contracts with agencies require
that the agent seek prior approval of Lawyers Title in order to commit Lawyers
Title to assume a risk over a stated dollar limit. Pursuant to agency
agreements, Lawyers Title assumes all of the risks to the insured, in the
absence of certain types of misconduct by the agent, in return for a portion of
the premium received.

 Lawyers Title owns a number of title plants and in some areas leases or
participates with other title insurance companies or agents in the cooperative
operating of such plants. Title plants are compilations of copies of public
records, maps and documents that are indexed to specific properties in an area,
and they serve to facilitate the preparation of title reports. In many of the
larger markets, the title plant and search procedures have been automated. To
maintain the value of the title plants, Lawyers Title continually updates its
records by regularly adding current information from the public records and
other sources. In this way, Lawyers Title maintains the ability to produce
quickly and at a reduced expense a statement of the instruments which constitute
the chain of title to a particular property.

 The premium for title insurance is due in full when the title
transaction is closed, and the policy amount is usually based upon the purchase
price of the property or the amount of the loan secured by the property. While
most other forms of insurance provide for the assumption of risk of loss arising
out of unforeseen future events, title insurance serves to protect the
policyholder from the risk of loss from events that predate the issuance of the
policy. This distinction underlies the low claims loss experience of title
insurers as compared to other insurance underwriters. Losses generally result
either from judgment errors or mistakes made in the title search and examination
process or the escrow process or from hidden defects such as fraud, 

 -4-


forgery, incapacity or missing heirs. Operating expenses, on the other hand, are
higher for title insurance companies than for other companies in the insurance
industry. Most title insurers incur considerable costs relating to the XX
required to process forms, search titles, collect information on specific
properties and prepare title insurance commitments and policies.

 A title policy can be issued directly by a title insurer or indirectly
on behalf of a title insurer through agents which are not themselves licensed as
insurers. Where the policy is issued by a title insurer, the search is performed
by or at the direction of the title insurer, and the premium is collected and
retained by the title insurer. Where the policy is issued through an agent, the
agent generally performs the search (in some areas searches are performed by
approved attorneys), examines the title, collects the premium and retains a
portion of the premium. The remainder of the premium is remitted to the title
insurer as compensation for bearing the risk of loss in the event a claim is
made under the policy. The percentage of the premium retained by an agent varies
from region to region and is sometimes regulated by the states. A title insurer
is obligated to pay title claims in accordance with the terms of its policies,
regardless of whether it issued its policy directly or indirectly through an
agent.

Insured Risk on Policies in Force

 The amount of the insured risk or "face amount" of insurance under a
title insurance policy is generally equal to either the purchase price of the
property or the amount of the loan secured by the property. The insurer is also
responsible for the cost of defending the insured title against covered claims.
The actual exposure at any time is significantly less than the total
face amount of policies in force because the risk on an policy is often
reduced over time as a result of subsequent transfers of the property and the
reissuance of title insurance by other title insurance underwriters, and the
coverage of a policy is reduced and eventually terminated as a result
of payment of the mortgage loan. Because of these factors, the total contingent
liability of a title underwriter on outstanding policies cannot be precisely
ascertained.

 In the ordinary course , Lawyers Title and its underwriting
subsidiaries represent and defend the interests of their insureds, and provide
on the Company books for estimated losses and loss adjustment expenses. Title
insurers are sometimes subject to unusual claims (such as claims of Indian
tribes to land formerly inhabited by them) and to claims arising outside the
insurance contract, such as for alleged negligence in search, examination or
closing, alleged improper claims handling and alleged bad faith. The damages
alleged in such claims arising outside the insurance contract may often exceed
the stated liability limits of the policies involved. While Lawyers Title in the
ordinary course of its business has been subject from time to time to these
types of claims, Lawyers losses to date on such claims have not been
significant in number or material in dollar amount to the financial
condition. In recent years, Lawyers Title has also experienced several large
claims resulting from agent escrow defalcations, and as a result of experience
in those cases, has put in place more stringent agent qualification and audit
procedures.

 Liabilities for estimated losses and loss adjustment expenses represent
the estimated ultimate net cost of all reported and unreported losses incurred
through December 31, 1997. The reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment
expenses are estimated using individual case-basis valuations and statistical
analyses. Those estimates are subject to the effects of trends in loss severity
and frequency. Although considerable variability is inherent in such estimates,
management believes that the reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses
are adequate. The estimates are continually reviewed and adjusted as necessary
as experience develops or new information becomes known; such adjustments are
included in current operations. The provision for policy and contract claims as
a percentage of operating revenues for 1997 was 5.4%, for 1996 was 5.2%, and for
1995 was 5.2%. See " Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations - Results of Operations."

 -5-


 Lawyers Title generally pays losses in cash; however, it sometimes
settles claims by purchasing the interest of the insured in the real property or
the interest of the claimant adverse to the insured. Assets acquired in this
manner are carried at the lower of cost or estimated realizable value, net of
any indebtedness thereon.

 Lawyers Title places a high priority on maintaining effective quality
assurance and claims administration programs. Lawyers quality assurance
program focuses on quality control, claims prevention and product risk
assessment in its branches, subsidiaries and independent agencies. The claims
administration program focuses on improving liability analysis, prompt, fair and
effective handling of claims, prompt evaluation of settlement or litigation with
first and third-party claimants and appropriate use of ADR (Alternative Dispute
Resolution) in claims processing. In addition, to reduce the incidence of agency
defalcations, Lawyers Title has strengthened its procedures for renewing
existing agents, has expanded its due diligence requirements in acquiring new
agents and has intensified its Agency Audit Program. The Company continues to
refine its systems for maintaining effective quality assurance and claims
administration programs.

Reinsurance and Coinsurance

 Lawyers Title distributes large title insurance risks through the
mechanisms of reinsurance and coinsurance. In reinsurance agreements, the
reinsurer accepts that part of the risk which the primary insurer (the "ceding
company" or "ceder") decides not to retain, in consideration for a portion of
the premium. A number of factors may enter into a decision to
reinsure, including retention limits imposed by state law, customer demands and
the risk retention philosophy of the company. The ceder, however, remains liable
to the insured for the total risk, whether or not the reinsurer meets its
obligation. As a general rule, when Lawyers Title purchases reinsurance on a
particular risk it will retain a primary risk of $5.0 million and may
participate with reinsurers on liability amounts above the primary level on a
secondary level. In the absence of specific approval by management, reinsurance
generally is purchased if the risk is greater than $35.0 million.

 Lawyers Title also assumes reinsurance from other title insurance
underwriters pursuant to a standard reinsurance agreement concerning specific
title insurance risks for properties on which it assumes a portion of the
liability. Lawyers Title has entered into numerous reinsurance agreements with
other title insurance underwriters on specific transactions. Lawyers 
exposure on all reinsurance assumed is reduced due to retention by the ceding
company of a substantial primary risk level. In addition, exposure under these
agreements generally ceases upon a transfer of the insured properties and, with
respect to insured loans, is decreased by reductions in mortgage loan balances.
Because of this, the actual exposure is much less than the total reinsurance
which Lawyers Title has assumed. Lawyers Title provides loss reserves on assumed
reinsurance business on a basis consistent with reserves for direct business.

 Lawyers Title also utilizes coinsurance to enable it to provide
coverage in amounts greater than it would be willing or able to undertake
individually. Under coinsurance transactions, each individual underwriting
company issues its individual policy and assumes a fraction of the overall total
risk. There is liability for each participating company for the particular
fraction of the risk it assumes.

 Lawyers Title enters into reinsurance and coinsurance arrangements with
most of the larger participants in the title insurance market and such
arrangements are not materially concentrated with any single title insurance
company. Revenues and claims from reinsurance are not material to Lawyers
Title as a whole.


 -6-


Title Insurance Premium Revenues

 In the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, premiums from the
issuance of title policies represented 78.9%, 76.8% and 79.9%, respectively, of
the consolidated revenues.

 The table below sets forth, for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996
and 1995, the approximate dollars and percentages of the title
insurance premium revenues for the ten states representing the largest
percentages of such revenues and for all other states combined:

 Lawyers Title
 Title Insurance Premiums by State
 (Dollars in thousands)

 Years Ended December 31,
 1997 1996 1995
 Amount % Amount % Amount %

Texas $111,252 22.1 $ 98,762 21.6 $ 82,604 21.4
Florida 38,163 7.6 33,340 7.3 26,852 7.0
California ... 36,438 7.2 32,148 7.0 28,530 7.4
Pennsylvania . 36,034 7.2 30,223 6.6 29,468 7.6
New York 26,810 5.3 24,318 5.3 17,396 4.5
Michigan 25,342 5.0 23,067 5.1 20,625 5.3
Virginia 21,486 4.3 20,613 4.5 19,968 5.2
Ohio 19,356 3.8 18,130 4.0 14,503 3.8
New Jersey ... 16,844 3.3 15,391 3.4 14,123 3.7
Massachusetts. 13,802 2.7 13,356 2.9 11,187 2.9
All Others ... 158,497 31.5 147,029 32.3 120,615 31.2
 ---- ---- ----

 Totals .. $504,024 100.0 $456,377 100.0 $385,871 100.0
 

Sales and Marketing

 Although Lawyers Title enhances its business development through
general advertising, it believes its primary source is from the real
estate community, such as attorneys, real estate brokers and developers,
financial institutions, mortgage brokers and independent escrow agents. Lawyers
Title results from construction and sale of new housing, resales and
refinancings of residential real estate and from commercial real estate
activity. In the 1990s Lawyers Title has placed a renewed emphasis on
residential real estate activity while maintaining a leadership position in
insuring commercial real estate transactions. Although precise data are not
available to compare the percentage of total premium revenues of Lawyers Title
derived from commercial versus residential real estate activities, approximately
80% of such revenues in 1997 resulted from policies providing coverage of $1.0
million or less (which tend to be residential) and approximately 20% of such
revenues resulted from policies providing coverage in excess of $1.0 million.

 Regional differences exist in Lawyers sales and marketing
emphasis. In eastern metropolitan areas, for instance, Lawyers Title has
emphasized the marketing of title insurance for commercial real estate
transactions. In the western states, primarily California, the principal source
 has been resales and refinancings of residential real estate and
construction and sales of new housing.

 -7-


 To increase profits and improve margins, Lawyers Title is expanding its
direct operations in markets with projected growth, attractive title insurance
rates and favorable claims experience. Since 1992, Lawyers Title has acquired
title operations in Texas, North Carolina, Oregon, Florida, Virginia, Maryland,
District of Columbia, Ohio, Maine, Michigan, New Mexico, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. In addition, within the last four years Lawyers
Title has added closing/escrow offices and sales representatives in many
markets.

 Lawyers Title has gained a favorable reputation for its National
Division offices which specialize in the sale and servicing of title insurance
for complex commercial and multi-property transactions. Lawyers Title has 14
such offices located in strategic metropolitan areas throughout the country.
Each of these National Division offices markets title insurance products and
services to large commercial customers in its areas and serves the 
title insurance needs throughout the country.

 LTSC, located at Lawyers National Headquarters, also services
national lenders which seek to obtain title insurance products and services as
well as a variety of other real estate related products and services such as
appraisals, tax services, flood certifications, surveys and document preparation
through a single source. LTSC is able to offer lenders one stop shopping for
such products and services based on the internal capabilities of Lawyers Title
and strategic alliances with other providers.

Customers

 Lawyers Title is not dependent upon any single customer or any single
group of customers. The loss of any one customer would not have a material
adverse effect on Lawyers Title.

Competition

 The title insurance business is very competitive. Competition is based
primarily on price, service and expertise. The size and financial strength of
the insurer are also important factors, particularly for larger commercial
customers. Title insurance underwriters also compete for agents on the basis of
service and commission levels.

 Lawyers Title is one of the largest title insurance underwriters in the
United States based on gross title revenues. Its principal competitors are other
major title insurance underwriters and their agency networks. In 1997, these
included Chicago Title Insurance Company, First American Title Insurance
Company, Commonwealth/Transnation (acquired by the Company on February 27,
1998), Stewart Title Guaranty Company, Old Republic National Title Insurance
Company and Fidelity National Title Insurance Company. Of the more than one
hundred title insurance underwriting companies licensed in the United States,
the top seven companies account for approximately 89% of the title insurance
market.

 The title insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by
the insurance authorities of the states in which they do business. See
"Regulation." Within this regulatory framework, the Company competes with
respect to premium rates, coverage, risk evaluation, service and business
development.

 State regulatory authorities impose underwriting limits on title
insurers based primarily on levels of available capital and surplus. While such
limits may theoretically hinder the title insurance subsidiaries'
assumption of a particular large underwriting liability, in practice the Company
has established its own internal risk limits at levels substantially lower than
those allowed by state law. Therefore, statutory capital-based risk limits are
not considered by the Company to be a significant factor in the amount or size
of underwriting it may undertake.

 -8-


Regulation

 The title insurance business is regulated by state regulatory
authorities who possess broad powers relating to the granting and revoking of
licenses, and the type and amount of investments which Lawyers Title and its
insurance subsidiaries may make. These state authorities also regulate insurance
rates, forms of policies and the form and XXof required annual statements,
and have the power to audit and examine the financial records of these
companies. Under state laws, certain levels of capital and surplus must be
maintained and certain amounts of portfolio securities must be segregated or
deposited with appropriate state officials. State regulatory policies also
restrict the amount of dividends which insurance companies may pay without prior
regulatory approval.

 The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has adopted model
legislation which if enacted would regulate title insurers and agents nationally
and change certain statutory reporting requirements. The proposed legislation
also would require title insurers to audit agents periodically and require
licensed agents to maintain professional liability insurance. The Company cannot
predict whether the proposed legislation or any provision thereof will be
adopted in Virginia or any other state. In 1996, Virginia enacted legislation
requiring an annual certification of reserve adequacy by a qualified actuary to
comply with the new statutory reporting requirements.

 A substantial portion of the assets of Lawyers Title and its
underwriting subsidiaries consists of their portfolios of investment securities.
As a title insurance company domiciled in Virginia, Lawyers Title is required by
state statute to maintain assets of a statutorily defined quality in an amount
equal to its total liabilities determined on a statutory basis plus 50% of
statutory equity. For statutory purposes, the total liabilities
include a statutory premium reserve, reserves established for losses in the
course of settlement ("case reserves") and other liabilities related to
operations.

 The statutorily required assets are maintained by Lawyers Title in
investment-grade corporate securities and United States, state and local
obligations. In addition to these investments, Lawyers Title maintains
portfolios of cash and cash-equivalents. The investment portfolios are managed
by professional investment advisors whose work is reviewed by the Pension and
Portfolio Committee of the Board of Directors.

 Land Title, TICA and Oregon Title, domiciled in California, Tennessee
and Oregon, respectively, are similarly required to maintain certain levels and
qualities of assets.

 Many state insurance regulatory laws intended primarily for the
protection of policyholders contain provisions that require advance approval by
state agencies of any change in control of an insurance company or insurance
holding company that is domiciled (or, in some cases, doing business) in that
state. Under such current laws, any future transaction that would constitute a
change in control of the Company would generally require approval by the state
insurance departments of Virginia, California, Tennessee, Texas, Ohio, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Arizona, New Jersey, New York, Florida, Alabama and Maryland. Such
requirement could have the effect of delaying or preventing certain transactions
affecting the control of the Company or the ownership of the Common
Stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to the shareholders of
the Company.


 -9-


Investment Policies

 The Company earns investment income from its portfolio of securities.
Historically, as a general policy, Lawyers Title limited its investments in
equity securities to approximately 50% of its statutory surplus. In 1996, the
Company changed its strategy for insurance company portfolios by shifting away
from investments in equity securities and into fixed-maturity securities. The
Company believes that the effect on future operations will be to replace the
lower dividend yields and variable capital gains experience of the equity
securities with the more steady and predictable stream of interest income from
fixed-maturity securities. The fixed-maturity portfolio consists of investment
grade securities and is designed to comply with the various state regulatory
requirements while maximizing yield. The Company regularly re-examines its
portfolio strategies in light of changing earnings or tax situations. See Note 3
to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the General section of 
Discussion and Analysis for the major categories of investments, contractual
maturities and income received.

Seasonality, Backlog and Cyclicality

 The title insurance business is closely related to overall levels of
real estate activity. Historically, real estate activity has been generally
slower in the winter months with volumes showing significant improvements in the
spring and summer months. The percentage of title orders closed to title orders
opened is typically lower in the first six months than at year end because of
this seasonal variance. In addition, the title insurance business is cyclical
due to the effect of interest rate fluctuations on the level of real estate
activity. Periods of high interest rates adversely affect real estate activity
and therefore premium revenues.

Employees

 As of December 31, 1997, the Company had 4,027 employees. The 
relationship with its employees is good. No employees are currently covered by
any collective bargaining agreements, and the Company is not aware of any union
organizing activity relating to its employees.

Environmental Matters

 Recent title insurance policies specifically exclude any liability for
environmental risks or contamination. Older policies, while not specifically
addressing environmental risks, are not considered to provide any coverage for
such matters, and the Company does not expect any significant expenses related
to environmental claims.

 Lawyers Title sometimes acts as a temporary title holder to real estate
under a nominee holding agreement and Lawyers Title, through its subsidiaries,
sometimes participates in holding agreements involving tax-deferred exchanges.
Lawyers customers in such situations generally are financially strong
entities from whom it secures indemnification for potential environmental and
other claims. In other situations where Lawyers Title might acquire title to
real estate, it will generally require that an appropriate environmental
assessment be made to evaluate and avoid any potential liability.

 -10-


Recent Acquisition

 The strategic focus of the Company has been on growth through carefully
selected acquisitions. Prior to 1997, the acquisitions consisted
primarily of small to medium-size title insurance agencies and underwriters.

 On August 20, 1997, the Company agreed to acquire all of the issued and
outstanding capital stock of Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company
("Commonwealth") and Transnation Title Insurance Company ("Transnation")
(collectively, the "Acquisition") pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement, dated
August 20, 1997, by and among the Company, Lawyers Title, Reliance Group
Holdings, Inc. ("Reliance") and Reliance Insurance Company ("RIC"), as amended
and restated by an Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement, dated December
11, 1997, among such parties (the "Stock Purchase Agreement"). Commonwealth and
Transnation together comprise the third largest title insurance operation in the
United States based upon total premiums and fees in 1996. As a result of the
Acquisition, Commonwealth and Transnation each became wholly owned subsidiaries
of the Company.

 The purchase price paid by the Company in connection with the
Acquisition consisted of approximately $200.7 million in cash funded by a
Revolving Credit Agreement, dated November 7, 1997, between the Company and Bank
of America National Trust and Savings Association, individually and as
Administrative Agent for a syndicate of 11 other financial institutions, (ii)
the issuance to RIC of 4,039,473 shares of the Common Stock, (iii) the
issuance to RIC of 2,200,000 shares of the 7% Series B Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Series B Preferred Stock"), which is initially
convertible into 4,824,561 shares of Common Stock, and (iv) $65.9 million in
cash, representing the net proceeds from the sale of 1,750,000 shares of Common
Stock offered to the public by the Company. The various components of the
purchase price were determined by arms-length negotiations between the parties.
Based upon a value for the 4,039,473 shares of Common Stock of $175.0 million
and an estimated value for the 2,200,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock of
$224.8 million, the aggregate purchase price paid by the Company to RIC at the
closing of the Acquisition was approximately $666.4 million.

 The Company also changed its name from "Lawyers Title Corporation" to
"LandAmerica Financial Group, Inc." effective as of February 27, 1998. The
change in name for the Company is intended to signify, among other things, an
expansion of the products and services beyond traditional title insurance to be
developed and offered by the combined company following the Acquisition. LTIC,
Commonwealth and Transnation will continue to operate under their current names
for the foreseeable future.

 In connection with the consummation of the Acquisition, the Company
amended its Articles of Incorporation to establish the Series B Preferred Stock.
The provisions of the Series B Preferred Stock provide, among other things,
that, in the event of certain defaults related primarily to the 
combined ratio as it compares to comparable title insurance companies and the
 claims-paying ability ratings, the size of the Board of
Directors will be increased by three RIC will be entitled to
designate three additional directors to fill the newly created seats. In
addition, in the event of certain defaults related primarily to dividend
payments on the shares of Series B Preferred Stock, the size of the 
Board of Directors will be increased by three RIC will be entitled
to designate three additional directors to fill the newly created seats.
Furthermore, if the Company defaults on any of its material debt obligations in
excess of $15.0 million or the Company fails to pay the stated dividend on the
Series B Preferred Stock on three occasions, whether or not consecutive, the
Company must increase the size of the Board of Directors to allow additional
directors to be designated by RIC such that the total number of directors
designated by RIC will constitute a majority of the Board of Directors.

 -11-


 In addition, the Company, RIC and Reliance entered into a Voting and
Standstill Agreement dated February 27, 1998. The Voting and Standstill
Agreement, among other things, provides for the designation by RIC of three
directors to be nominated and recommended for election to the Board of
 (ii) prohibits RIC and Reliance and their affiliates from acquiring
any additional shares of Common Stock or Series B Preferred Stock (except as
permitted under the Voting and Standstill Agreement), (iii) requires that RIC
and Reliance and their affiliates vote their shares of Common Stock in a certain
manner depending upon the matter that is subject to a vote of the 
shareholders, (iv) requires the sale of the 4,039,473 shares of Common Stock
acquired by RIC within 6 1/2 years after the effective date of the resale
registration statement for such shares (subject to extension as provided in the
Voting and Standstill Agreement), requires RIC, with respect to the
2,200,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock received by RIC in the Acquisition
and any shares of Common Stock received upon conversion of such shares of Series
B Preferred Stock, to sell so many of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock or
shares of Common Stock received upon conversion thereof held by it or its
affiliates as is necessary to reduce the RIC Ownership Percentage (as defined
below) to less than 20% of the Adjusted Outstanding Shares (as defined below) by
not later than 8 1/2 years after the effective date of the registration
statement for such shares (subject to extension as provided in the Voting and
Standstill Agreement), (vi) restricts the ability of RIC and its affiliates to
convert the shares of Series B Preferred Stock then held by them until all of
the 4,039,473 shares of Common Stock (and certain additional shares that may be
issued with respect to such shares) have been sold to persons that are not, at
the time of the sale, conveyance or transfer, an affiliate of RIC, provided that
such restriction shall not apply upon the occurrence of certain specified events
set forth in the Voting and Standstill Agreement, and (vii) prohibits the
knowing transfer of any of the Acquisition Shares to any person or group if, as
a result of such transfer, such person or group would have beneficial ownership
of Common Stock representing in the aggregate more than 9.9% of the issued and
outstanding shares of Common Stock (subject to exceptions set forth in the
Voting and Standstill Agreement). On February 27, 1998, the Company increased
the size of the Board of Directors from 10 to 14 and elected Herbert Wender,
Robert M. Steinberg, Lowell C. Freiberg and George E. Bello as directors of the
Company.

 "RIC Ownership Percentage" means, at any time, the percentage of the
Adjusted Outstanding Shares that is beneficially owned in the aggregate by RIC
and its affiliates. "Adjusted Outstanding Shares" means, at any time and with
respect to the determination of the RIC Ownership Percentage as it relates to
RIC and its affiliates, the total number of shares of Common Stock then issued
and outstanding together with the total number of shares of Common Stock not
then issued and outstanding that would be outstanding if all then existing
shares of Series B Preferred Stock had been converted and all then existing
warrants and options exercisable into shares of Common Stock had been exercised
(other than underwriters' over-allotment options and stock options granted under
benefit plans of the Company or any of its affiliates), but excluding any rights
that may be exercisable under the shareholder rights plan. As of
February 27, 1998, the 4,039,473 shares of Common Stock acquired by RIC at the
closing of the Acquisition represented approximately 26.8% of the issued and
outstanding shares of Common Stock as of that date, the RIC Ownership Percentage
was 44.6%, the Adjusted Outstanding Shares was 19,869,154 and the total number
of shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding was 15,044,593.

 Finally, the Company and RIC entered into a Registration Rights
Agreement on February 27, 1998. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement,
the Company filed two registration statements with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "Commission") to register, under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, the resale of the 4,039,473 shares of the Common Stock
issued to RIC in the Acquisition, (ii) the 2,200,000 shares of the Series B
Preferred Stock issued to RIC in the Acquisition and (iii) the 4,824,561 shares
of Common Stock that RIC may acquire upon conversion of the Series B Preferred
Stock. Such registration 


 -12-


statements became effective on February 27, 1998. The Registration Rights
Agreement requires the Company to use its best efforts to maintain the
effectiveness of such registration statements for specified time periods.

 A copy of the Series B Preferred Stock designation was included as an
exhibit to the Form 8-A registration statement filed with the
Commission on February 27, 1998. Copies of the Voting and Standstill Agreement
and the Registration Rights Agreement are filed herewith as exhibits to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 The Company continually assesses the growth potential for its business
in its existing markets as well as those markets in which it is not currently
participating. The Company expects that it will continue to evaluate
acquisitions of small to medium-size title insurance agencies and underwriters.
Through acquisitions of independent agencies with a track record of
profitability and the prospect of growth in the future, the Company can expand
revenues while increasing its profit margins and control over the acquired
agencies. In assessing the acquisition of an underwriter, the Company reviews,
among other factors, the profitability, location, growth potential
in its existing market, claims experience and adequacy of its reserves.

Business of Commonwealth/Transnation

 General. Commonwealth was founded as a title insurance company in 1876
and was incorporated in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on April 1, 1944.
Commonwealth is licensed by the insurance departments of 49 states, the District
of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Transnation was
incorporated as an insurance company in the State of Arizona on September 15,
1992. Transnation is the successor by merger to Transamerica Title Insurance
Company, a California corporation incorporated on March 26, 1910. The current
name of the corporation was adopted on September 20, 1995. Transnation is
licensed by the insurance departments of 40 states and the District of Columbia.

 Commonwealth and Transnation, and their respective subsidiaries and
divisions, provide a complete range of title and closing services through an
extensive network of more than 4,000 policy-issuing locations nationwide,
including branch offices, independent agents, and approved attorneys. The
National Title Services division of Commonwealth/Transnation provides
specialized title services for large and multi-state commercial transactions. In
addition to its nationwide title insurance operations, Commonwealth/Transnation
offers a full range of residential real estate services to the national mortgage
lending community through its Commonwealth OneStop network. Commonwealth
OneStop provides appraisal management services through the CLT Appraisal
Services, Inc. subsidiary, (ii) title insurance services through the National
Residential Title Services division, (iii) employee relocation and property
disposition services through Commonwealth Relocation Services, Inc., (iv)
appraisal information systems through the Day One, Inc. subsidiary and 
additional services through independent service providers.

 National Title Services Division. The National Title Services division
of Commonwealth/Transnation, with thirteen (13) offices located in major
metropolitan areas nationwide, delivers complete customized title insurance
packages for large commercial, multi-site and interstate real estate
transactions. The division consists of numerous title insurance and real estate
professionals that comprise an entire network of national branch offices and
agents. Expertise on the local level provides the division with a full
understanding of varying real estate customs and requirements.

 Commonwealth OneStop. Through the Commonwealth OneStop operation,
based in Wayne, Pennsylvania, Commonwealth/Transnation provides national and
regional lenders with a full range of residential closing services. Lenders can
obtain all of the services necessary to 


 -13-


complete residential real estate transactions through a single point of contact.
Such services are easily accessible through Electronic Data Interchange ("EDI"),
by facsimile or through COSMOS - Commonwealth/ electronic mail
ordering system. COSMOS offers lenders that have not yet converted to the EDI
standard an opportunity to place their orders electronically. The key services
on the Commonwealth OneStop network are appraisal management services through
CLT Appraisal Services, Inc. and title insurance services through the National
Residential Title Services division.

 CLT Appraisal Services, Inc. CLT Appraisal Services, Inc. provides the
mortgage lending industry with appraisal services through state-of-the-art
technology. A nationwide network of independent licensed or certified fee
appraisers provides unbiased, third-party opinions from experienced
professionals with knowledge of their local markets. Through a customized
computer interface, telephone or facsimile, branch offices can communicate with
the national processing center in Wayne, Pennsylvania, which handles all aspects
of the process from order placement to status reporting and delivery. Appraisers
are screened before being admitted to the network, and they must meet certain
standards in education, training, licensing and experience.

 National Residential Title Services Division. In connection with
technological advancements that allow real estate transactions to close quickly,
the National Residential Title Services division provides lenders with a single
point of contact for a full range of residential title services. The service of
this division extends to Commonwealth/ entire network of more than
4,000 policy-issuing locations nationwide, including branch offices, independent
agents and approved attorneys. National Residential Title Services provides
lenders with the convenience of one-stop shopping and the flexibility of setting
up procedures that meet with their individual requirements.

 Commonwealth Relocation Services, Inc. Commonwealth Relocation
Services, Inc. ("CRS") is a full-service national relocation management company.
CRS provides complete, diversified services that seek to keep relocation
activities and costs under control. Founded in 1967, CRS is one of the oldest
firms in the relocation business.

 Day One, Inc. Day One, Inc. is a supplier of software for the appraisal
and property inspection industry.

 The National 1031 Exchange Corporation. The National 1031 Exchange
Corporation serves as an independent, third party advisor to facilitate
tax-deferred real property exchanges under Section 1031 of the Code.


YEAR 1999, CIK 877355, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company

 LandAmerica Financial Group, Inc. (the "Company") is a holding company
organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia on June 24, 1991. The
Company, through its subsidiaries, is engaged in the business of issuing title
insurance policies and performing other real estate-related services for both
residential and commercial real estate transactions. As a holding company, the
Company has greater flexibility in conducting certain operations, especially
with regard to capital transactions, while the operating title insurance
subsidiaries remain subject to regulation by the various states. See
"Regulation" below.

 The Company has its principal executive offices at 101 Gateway Centre
Parkway, Richmond, Virginia 23235-5153. Its telephone number is (804) 267-8000.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the Company, as used herein, refers to
the Company and each of its subsidiaries.

Overview of the Operations

 Title Insurance. The Company issues title insurance policies through
its various title underwriting subsidiaries. The three principal title
underwriting subsidiaries are Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company
("Commonwealth"), Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation ("Lawyers Title") and
Transnation Title Insurance Company ("Transnation"). The Company also owns 11
other title insurance underwriters, including Commonwealth Land Title Insurance
Company of New Jersey, Oregon Title Insurance Company, Title Insurance Company
of America and Industrial Valley Title Insurance Company. The collective
operations of these subsidiaries cover the entire United States (with the
exception of Iowa, which does not recognize title insurance) and certain
territories of the United States.

 In connection with the issuance of title insurance policies, the
Company performs title search and examination services and also offers closing
protection letters to lenders and owners who purchase title insurance. The
Company also furnishes certificates of title and abstracts of title in some
states.

 Escrow and Closing Services. In addition to the issuance of title
insurance policies, the Company provides escrow and closing services to a
broad-based customer group that includes lenders, developers, real estate
agents, attorneys and home buyers and sellers. In California and a number of
western states, it is a general practice, incident to the issuance of title
insurance policies, to hold funds and documents in escrow for delivery in real
estate transactions upon fulfillment of the conditions to such delivery. In the
mid-western states, Florida and some eastern cities, it is customary for the
title company to close the transaction and disburse the sale or loan proceeds.
Fees for such escrow and closing services are generally separate and distinct
from premiums paid for title insurance policies.

 Ancillary Services. The Company offers a full range of residential real
estate services to the national and regional mortgage lending community through
its LandAmerica OneStop operation. The services of LandAmerica OneStop include
the coordination of title insurance orders, credit reporting, flood
certification, property appraisal and valuation, centralized closing and escrow
services, real estate tax services, document preparation and property
inspections. These services are available to national and regional mortgage
lenders through a single point of contact with the Company and are provided by
subsidiaries of the Company or through joint ventures or strategic alliances
with third parties.



 -2-


 The Company also is a provider of certain specialized services
associated with real estate transactions through Commonwealth Relocation
Services, Inc. ("Commonwealth Relocation") and its exchange company
subsidiaries. Commonwealth Relocation offers national employee relocation
services. LandAmerica Exchange Company and The National 1031 Exchange
Corporation facilitate property exchanges pursuant to Section 1031 of the
Internal Revenue Code by holding the sale proceeds from one transaction until a
second acquisition occurs, thereby assisting customers in deferring the
recognition of taxable income.

 Technology Subsidiaries. The title insurance industry has become
increasingly automated. The Company has two wholly owned subsidiaries devoted to
computer automation of various aspects of the title insurance business. Elliptus
Technologies, Inc. ("Elliptus") develops and markets title production and escrow
software that automates policy issuance, escrow and closing documentation and
support functions. Datatrace Information Services Company, Inc. provides
automated title plant services. In addition, the Company has one subsidiary, Day
One, Inc., which develops and markets property valuation software to the
appraisal industry.

Principal Title Underwriting Subsidiaries

 Commonwealth. Commonwealth was founded as a title insurance company in
1876 and was incorporated in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on April 1, 1944.
Commonwealth is licensed by the insurance departments of 49 states, the District
of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

 Lawyers Title. Lawyers Title, a Virginia corporation, has been engaged
primarily in the title insurance business since 1925. Lawyers Title
is conducted in 49 states and in the District of Columbia, the territories of
Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Bahamas and a number of Canadian
provinces.

 Transnation. Transnation, an Arizona corporation, is the successor to
Transamerica Title Insurance Company, which commenced business on March 26,
1910. Transnation is licensed by the insurance departments of 40 states and the
District of Columbia.

Title Insurance and Underwriting

 Title Insurance. Title insurance policies are insured statements of the
condition of title to real property. Such policies indemnify the insured from
losses resulting from certain outstanding liens, encumbrances and other defects
in title to real property that appear as matters of public record, and from
certain other matters not of public record. Title insurance is generally
accepted as the most efficient means of determining title to, and priority of
interests in, real estate in nearly all parts of the United States. Many of the
principal customers of title insurance companies buy insurance for the accuracy
and reliability of the title search as well as for the indemnity features of the
policy. The beneficiaries of title insurance policies are generally owners or
buyers of real property or parties who make loans on the security of real
property. An policy protects the XX insured against title defects,
liens and encumbrances existing as of the date of the policy and not
specifically excluded or excepted from its provisions, while a policy,
in addition to the foregoing, insures against the invalidity of the lien of the
insured mortgage and insures the priority of the lien as stated in the title
policy.

 While most other forms of insurance provide for the assumption of risk
of loss arising out of unforeseen future events, title insurance serves to
protect the policyholder from the risk of loss from events that predate the
issuance of the policy. This distinction underlies the low claims loss
experience of title insurers as compared to other insurance underwriters. Losses
generally result either from judgment errors or mistakes made in the title
search and examination process or the escrow process or from hidden defects such
as fraud, forgery, incapacity or missing heirs.



 -3-


Operating expenses, on the other hand, are higher for title insurance companies
than for other companies in the insurance industry. Most title insurers incur
considerable costs relating to the XX required to process forms, search
titles, collect information on specific properties and prepare title insurance
commitments and policies.

 Underwriting. The Company issues title insurance policies on the basis
of a title report, which is prepared pursuant to underwriting guidelines
prescribed by the Company, after a search of the public records, maps and
documents to ascertain the existence of easements, restrictions, rights of way,
conditions, encumbrances, liens or other matters affecting the title to, or use
of, real property. In certain instances, a visual inspection of the property is
also made. Title examinations may be made by branch employees, agency XX
or approved attorneys, whose reports are utilized by or rendered to a branch or
agent and are the basis for the issuance of policies by the Company. In the case
of difficult or unusual legal or underwriting issues involving potential title
risks, the branch office or agent is instructed to consult with a designated
supervising office. The contracts with independent agents require that
the agent seek prior approval of the Company in order to commit the Company to
assume a risk over a stated dollar limit.

 The Company owns a number of title plants and in some areas leases or
participates with other title insurance companies or agents in the cooperative
operation of such plants. Title plants are compilations of copies of public
records, maps and documents that are indexed to specific properties in an area,
and they serve to facilitate the preparation of title reports. In many of the
larger markets, the title plant and search procedures have been automated. To
maintain the value of the title plants, the Company continually updates its
records by regularly adding current information from the public records and
other sources. In this way, the Company maintains the ability to produce quickly
and at a reduced expense a statement of the instruments which constitute the
chain of title to a particular property.

Direct and Agency Operations

 The Company issues title insurance policies through its direct
operations (which include branch offices of its title insurers and wholly owned
subsidiary agencies of the Company) or through independent title insurance
agents. Where the policy is issued through its direct operations, the search is
performed by or at the direction of the Company, and the premium is collected
and retained by the Company. Where the policy is issued through an independent
agent, the agent generally performs the search (in some areas searches are
performed by approved attorneys), examines the title, collects the premium and
retains a portion of the premium. The remainder of the premium is remitted to
the Company as compensation for bearing the risk of loss in the event a claim is
made under the policy. The percentage of the premium retained by an agent varies
from region to region and is sometimes regulated by the states. The Company is
obligated to pay title claims in accordance with the terms of its policies,
regardless of whether it issues policies through direct operations or
independent agents. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, approximately
48.9% of total title insurance revenues were derived from direct operations and
51.1% came from independent agents.

 The premium for title insurance is due in full when the real estate
transaction is closed. Title insurance premium revenues from direct operations
are recognized by the Company upon the closing of the transaction, whereas
premium revenues from agency operations are recognized by the Company upon
receipt of such premiums. Premiums from independent agents are typically
remitted to the Company an average of 90 days after the closing of the real
estate transaction.

Insured Risk on Policies in Force

 The amount of the insured risk or "face amount" of insurance under a
title insurance policy is generally equal to either the purchase price of the
property or the amount of the loan secured by the property. The insurer is also
responsible for the cost of defending the insured title



 -4-


against covered claims. The actual exposure at any time is
significantly less than the total face amount of policies in force because the
risk on an policy is often reduced over time as a result of subsequent
transfers of the property and the reissuance of title insurance by other title
insurance underwriters, and the coverage of a policy is reduced and
eventually terminated as a result of payment of the mortgage loan. Because of
these factors, the total contingent liability of a title underwriter on
outstanding policies cannot be precisely ascertained.

 In the ordinary course , the underwriting
subsidiaries represent and defend the interests of their insureds, and provide
on the consolidated books for estimated losses and loss adjustment
expenses. Title insurers are sometimes subject to unusual claims (such as claims
of Indian tribes to land formerly inhabited by them) and to claims arising
outside the insurance contract, such as for alleged negligence in search,
examination or closing, alleged improper claims handling and alleged bad faith.
The damages alleged in such claims arising outside the insurance contract may
often exceed the stated liability limits of the policies involved. While the
Company in the ordinary course of its business has been subject from time to
time to these types of claims, the losses to date on such claims have
not been significant in number or material in dollar amount to the 
financial condition.

 Liabilities for estimated losses and loss adjustment expenses represent
the estimated ultimate net cost of all reported and unreported losses incurred
through December 31, 1998. The reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment
expenses are estimated using individual case-basis valuations and statistical
analyses. Those estimates are subject to the effects of trends in loss severity
and frequency. Although considerable variability is inherent in such estimates,
management believes that the reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses
are adequate. Independent actuaries review the adequacy of reserves on an
interim basis and certify as to their adequacy on an annual basis. The reserve
estimates are continually reviewed and adjusted as the loss experience
develops or new information becomes known. Any adjustments to loss reserve
estimates are included as a current operating expense. The provision for policy
and contract claims as a percentage of operating revenues for 1998 was 5.2%, for
1997 was 5.4%, and for 1996 was 5.2%. See " Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations."

 The Company generally pays losses in cash; however, it sometimes
settles claims by purchasing the interest of the insured in the real property or
the interest of the claimant adverse to the insured. Assets acquired in this
manner are carried at the lower of cost or estimated realizable value, net of
any indebtedness thereon.

 Standard & Poors Corporation ("S&P") has assigned a financial strength
rating of "A" to the title insurance operations of the Company. According to
S&P, an insurer rated "A" has strong financial security characteristics, but is
somewhat more likely to be affected by adverse business conditions than are
insurers with higher ratings. Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co. ("Duff & Phelps")
has assigned an "A" rating to the claims-paying ability of the Company.
According to Duff & Phelps, an "A" rating is assigned to those companies which
have a high claims-paying ability, protection factors are average and there is
an expectation of variability in risk over time due to economic and/or
underwriting conditions. Duff & Phelps also assigns a ratings outlook along with
its letter ratings to indicate its expectations of trends that relate to the
claims-paying ability rating for the rated company. The ratings outlook assigned
by Duff & Phelps may be either "positive," "stable" or "negative." According to
Duff & Phelps, the ratings outlook for the Company is "positive." The S&P and
Duff & Phelps ratings are not designed for the protection of investors and do
not constitute recommendations to buy, sell or hold any security.

 The Company places a high priority on maintaining effective quality
assurance and claims administration programs. The quality assurance
program focuses on quality control, claims prevention and product risk
assessment for its independent agencies. The claims administration program
focuses on improving liability analysis, prompt, fair and effective handling 



 -5-


of claims, prompt evaluation of settlement or litigation with first and
third-party claimants and appropriate use of ADR (Alternative Dispute
Resolution) in claims processing. In addition, to reduce the incidence of agency
defalcations, the Company has implemented due diligence requirements in
connection with the appointment of new agents, adopted procedures for renewing
existing agents and established an Agency Audit Program. The Company continues
to refine its systems for maintaining effective quality assurance and claims
administration programs.

Reinsurance and Coinsurance

 The Company distributes large title insurance risks through the
mechanisms of reinsurance and coinsurance. In reinsurance agreements, the
reinsurer accepts that part of the risk which the primary insurer (the "ceding
company" or "ceder") decides not to retain, in consideration for a portion of
the premium. A number of factors may enter into a decision to
reinsure, including retention limits imposed by state law, customer demands and
the risk retention philosophy of the company. The ceder, however, remains liable
to the insured for the total risk, whether or not the reinsurer meets its
obligation. The Company may reinsure from among its own title insurance
subsidiaries or may reinsure with unaffiliated reinsurers. As a general rule,
when the Company purchases reinsurance on a particular risk from unaffiliated
reinsurers, it will generally retain a primary risk of $5.0 million and may
participate with such reinsurers on liability amounts above the primary level on
a secondary level. Reinsurance is generally purchased from unaffiliated
reinsurers if the risk is greater than $150.0 million.

 The Company assumes reinsurance from unaffiliated title insurance
underwriters pursuant to a standard reinsurance agreement concerning specific
title insurance risks for properties on which it assumes a portion of the
liability. The Company has entered into numerous reinsurance agreements with
other title insurance underwriters on specific transactions. The 
exposure on all reinsurance assumed is reduced due to retention by the ceding
company of a substantial primary risk level. In addition, exposure under these
agreements generally ceases upon a transfer of the insured properties and, with
respect to insured loans, is decreased by reductions in mortgage loan balances.
Because of this, the actual exposure is much less than the total reinsurance
which the Company has assumed. The Company provides loss reserves on assumed
reinsurance business on a basis consistent with reserves for direct business.

 The Company utilizes coinsurance to enable it to provide coverage in
amounts greater than it would be willing or able to undertake individually. In
coinsurance transactions, each individual underwriting company issues a separate
policy and assumes a fraction of the overall total risk. Each coinsurer is
liable only for the particular fraction of the risk it assumes.

 The Company enters into reinsurance and coinsurance arrangements with
most of the larger participants in the title insurance market and such
arrangements are not materially concentrated with any single title insurance
company. Revenues and claims from reinsurance are not material to the Company as a whole.

 Two of the subsidiaries, Commonwealth and Transnation,
maintain excess-of-loss catastrophe reinsurance from Capital Title Reinsurance
Co. These policies cover losses of up to $40.0 million in excess of $10.0
million for single properties and up to $40.0 million in excess of $20.0 million
for multisite transactions.



 -6-


Title Insurance Revenues

 The table below sets forth, for the years ended December 31, 1998 and
1997, the approximate dollars and percentages of the revenues on a pro
forma and historic basis for the ten states representing the largest percentages
of such revenues and for all other states combined:

 Revenues by State
 (Dollars in thousands)



 Pro Forma Historic
 1998 1997 1998 1997
 
Texas $ 272,577 14.1% $ 209,382 14.1% $ 258,687 14.4% $ 114,848 18.4%
California 224,062 11.6% 163,314 11.0% 213,452 11.9% 66,933 10.7%
Florida 149,220 7.7% 121,569 8.2% 136,673 7.6% 41,928 6.7%
Pennsylvania 118,819 6.1% 87,329 5.9% 110,585 6.1% 36,878 5.9%
Michigan 107,954 5.6% 78,918 5.3% 100,623 5.6% 30,064 4.8%
New York 105,135 5.4% 95,903 6.5% 95,706 5.3% 27,761 4.5%
New Jersey 65,765 3.4% 51,131 3.4% 60,126 3.3% 17,125 2.7%
Washington 65,332 3.4% 50,229 3.4% 56,512 3.1% 128 0.0%
Arizona 61,112 3.2% 28,988 2.0% 56,391 3.1% 1,381 0.2%
Colorado 58,348 3.0% 39,451 2.7% 55,668 3.1% 32,011 5.1%
Other 623,041 32.1% 468,158 31.5% 582,895 32.4% 202,075 32.4%
 Total title revenues 1,851,365 95.6% 1,394,372 94.0% 1,727,318 95.9% 571,132 91.4%

Non-title revenues 87,301 4.4% 92,155 6.0% 72,216 4.1% 51,649 8.6%
 
Total revenues $1,938,666 100.0% $1,486,527 100.0% $1,799,534 100.0% $622,781 100.0%
 

 On February 27, 1998, the Company acquired all of the issued and
outstanding shares of capital stock of Commonwealth and Transnation. The pro
forma amounts included in the table assume that the acquisition occurred at the
beginning of 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Sales and Marketing

 The Title Insurance Market. For sales and marketing purposes, the
Company generally views residential real estate activities and commercial real
estate activities as two distinct sources of title insurance business.
Residential real estate business results from the construction, sale, resale and
refinancing of residential properties, while commercial real estate business
results from similar activities with respect to properties with a business or
commercial use. The Company has emphasized the development of its residential
real estate business during the , while maintaining a leadership position
in insuring commercial real estate transactions. Although precise data are not
available to compare the percentage of total premium revenues of the Company
derived from commercial versus residential real estate activities, approximately
80% of such revenues in 1998 resulted from policies providing coverage of $1.0
million or less (which tend to be residential) and approximately 20% of such
revenues resulted from policies providing coverage in excess of $1.0 million.

 Residential Transactions. The primary source of residential
business is from the local real estate community, such as attorneys, real estate
brokers and developers, financial institutions, mortgage brokers and independent
escrow agents. Maintenance and expansion of these referral sources is integral
to the marketing strategy for local residential business. Although
most of the residential business arises from these local
relationships, large national and regional residential mortgage originators
continue to expand their


 -7-


role in the residential real estate market. These lenders are attracted to title
insurance providers who can offer a single source for title insurance and a
broad array of services related to residential real estate transactions. The
Company has responded to this developing trend in the market by establishing
LandAmerica OneStop as a single, convenient point of contact through which
national and regional mortgage lenders can place orders for title insurance and
other services related to real estate transactions. See "Overview of the
 Operations - Ancillary Services."

 In addition, each of the principal underwriting subsidiaries
has developed brand name recognition in particular markets. Using a multiple
brand strategy in which each of these subsidiaries markets and sells under its
own name, the Company seeks to capitalize on long-standing customer
relationships and referral sources and to target different market segments with
different brand names.

 Commercial Transactions. The Company is one of the leading providers of
title insurance for commercial transactions. The National Commercial
Services ("NCS") division specializes in the sale and servicing of title
insurance for complex commercial and multi-property transactions. The Company
has 16 NCS offices located in strategic metropolitan areas throughout the
country. Each of these NCS offices markets title insurance products and services
to large commercial customers located in its region and serves the 
title insurance needs throughout the country. The Company also markets title
insurance for commercial transactions through local direct operations and
independent agents.

 In addition, the Company is one of the most strongly capitalized title
insurers in the industry, with an aggregate statutory surplus of $385.6 million
as of December 31, 1998. The financial strength of the Company is an important
factor in marketing the commercial title business capabilities,
enabling it to underwrite larger title policies and retain higher levels of risk
without purchasing reinsurance from a third party. The capital
position also supports a rating of "A" from each of Standard & Poors (financial
strength) and Duff & Phelps (claims-paying ability). These ratings are important
in competing for commercial title insurance business.

Customers

 As of December 31, 1998, no single independent agent was responsible
for more than 5% of the title insurance revenues of any of the 
principal underwriting subsidiaries. In addition, the Company is not dependent
upon any single customer or any single group of customers. The loss of any one
customer would not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

Competition

 The title insurance business is very competitive. Competition for
residential title business is based primarily on service and, to a lesser
extent, price. Service quality is based upon a number of factors, including
technological capabilities (resulting in a readily accessible, efficient and
reliable product) and the ability to respond quickly to customers. With respect
to national and regional mortgage lenders, service quality includes a large
distribution network and the ability to deliver a broad array of real estate
services quickly, efficiently and through a single point of contact. Competition
for commercial title business is based primarily on price, service, expertise in
complex transactions and the size and financial strength of the insurer. Title
insurance underwriters also compete for agents on the basis of service and
commission levels.

 The Company is one of the largest title insurance underwriters in the
United States based on title premium revenues. Its principal competitors are
other major title insurance underwriters and their agency networks. The
 principal competitors during 1998 were Chicago Title


 -8-


Insurance Company, First American Title Insurance Company, Stewart Title
Guaranty Company, Old Republic National Title Insurance Company and Fidelity
National Title Insurance Company. Of the more than one hundred title insurance
underwriting companies licensed in the United States, the top six companies
account for approximately 89.2% of the title insurance market.

 The title insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by
the insurance authorities of the states in which they do business. See
"Regulation." Within this regulatory framework, the Company competes with
respect to premium rates, coverage, risk evaluation, service and business
development.

 State regulatory authorities impose underwriting limits on title
insurers based primarily on levels of available capital and surplus. The Company
has underwriting limits that are comparable to its competitors. While such
limits may theoretically hinder the title insurance subsidiaries'
assumption of a particular large underwriting liability, in practice the Company
has established its own internal risk limits at levels substantially lower than
those allowed by state law. In addition, the Company may spread the risk of a
large underwriting liability over its three principal title underwriting
subsidiaries. Therefore, statutory capital-based risk limits are not considered
by the Company to be a significant factor in the amount or size of underwriting
it may undertake.

Regulation

 The title insurance business is regulated by state regulatory
authorities who possess broad powers relating to the granting and revoking of
licenses, and the type and amount of investments which the title
insurance subsidiaries may make. These state authorities also regulate insurance
rates, forms of policies, claims handling procedures and the form and XXof
required annual statements, and have the power to audit and examine the
financial and other records of these companies. Some states require title
insurers to own or lease title plants. A substantial portion of the assets of
the title underwriting subsidiaries consists of their portfolios of
investment securities. Each of these subsidiaries is required by the laws of its
state of domicile to maintain assets of a statutorily defined quality and
amount. See "Investment Policies" below. Under state laws, certain levels of
capital and surplus must be maintained and certain amounts of portfolio
securities must be segregated or deposited with appropriate state officials.
State regulatory policies also restrict the amount of dividends which insurance
companies may pay without prior regulatory approval.

 The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the "NAIC") has
adopted model legislation which if enacted would regulate title insurers and
agents nationally and change certain statutory reporting requirements. The
proposed legislation also would require title insurers to audit agents
periodically and require licensed agents to maintain professional liability
insurance. The Company cannot predict whether the proposed legislation or any
provision thereof will be adopted in any state. Also, the NAIC has adopted an
instruction requiring an annual certification of reserve adequacy by a qualified
actuary. Because all of the states in which the title insurance
subsidiaries are domiciled require adherence to NAIC filing procedures, each
such subsidiary, unless it qualifies for an exemption, must file an actuarial
opinion with respect to the adequacy of its reserves.

 Many state insurance regulatory laws intended primarily for the
protection of policyholders contain provisions that require advance approval by
state agencies of any change in control of an insurance company or insurance
holding company that is domiciled (or, in some cases, doing business) in that
state. Under such current laws, any future transaction that would constitute a
change in control of the Company would generally require approval by the state
insurance departments of Virginia, California, Tennessee, Texas, Ohio, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Arizona, New Jersey, New York, Florida, Alabama and Maryland. Such
requirement could have the effect of delaying or preventing certain transactions
affecting the control of the Company or


 -9-


the ownership of the Common Stock, including transactions that could
be advantageous to the shareholders of the Company.

Investment Policies

 The Company earns investment income from its portfolio of
fixed-maturity debt securities issued principally by corporations and United
States, state and local jurisdictions, as well as by United States government
agencies. Substantially all of this portfolio is located in the title
underwriting subsidiaries. At December 31, 1998, approximately 98% of the
 investment portfolio consisted of investment grade securities. The
 portfolio is managed to comply with the various state regulatory
requirements while maximizing net after-tax yield. The Company does not invest
in common stock issued by unaffiliated entities. The investment portfolio is
managed by professional investment advisors under guidelines which govern the
types of permissible investments, investment quality, maturity and duration, and
concentration of issuer. These guidelines, and the investment
strategies, are established and periodically re-examined by the Pension and
Portfolio Committee of the Board of Directors. This Committee also
reviews the performance of the investment advisors on a quarterly basis. See
Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Cyclicality and Seasonality

 The title insurance business is closely related to the overall level of
residential and commercial real estate activity, which is generally affected by
the relative strength or weakness of the United States economy. In addition,
title insurance volumes fluctuate based on the effect of changes in interest
rates on the level of real estate activity. Economic downturns, or periods of
increasing interest rates, usually have an adverse impact on real estate
activity and therefore premium and fee revenues.

 Historically, residential real estate activity has been generally
slower in the winter, when fewer families move, buy or sell homes, with
increased volumes in the spring and summer. Residential refinancing activity is
generally more uniform throughout the seasons, subject to interest rate
stability. The Company typically reports its lowest revenues in the first
quarter, with revenues increasing into the second quarter and through the third
quarter. The fourth quarter customarily may be as strong as the third quarter,
depending on the level of activity in the commercial real estate market.

 In 1998, the typical seasonality of the title insurance business was
somewhat tempered by the high level of refinancing activity, which may not
continue through 1999.

Employees

 As of December 31, 1998, the Company had 9,543 full time and 790 part
time employees. The relationship with its employees is good. Except
for 15 employees in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, no employees of the Company are
covered by any collective bargaining agreements, and the Company is not aware of
any union organizing activity relating to its employees.

Environmental Matters

 Recent title insurance policies specifically exclude any liability for
environmental risks or contamination. Older policies, while not specifically
addressing environmental risks, are not considered to provide any coverage for
such matters, and the Company does not expect any significant expenses related
to environmental claims.

 The Company, through its subsidiaries, sometimes acts as a temporary
title holder to real estate under a nominee holding agreement and sometimes
participates in holding agreements


 -10-


involving tax-deferred exchanges. The customers in such situations
generally are financially strong entities from whom it secures indemnification
for potential environmental and other claims. In other situations where the
Company might acquire title to real estate, it will generally require that an
appropriate environmental assessment be made to evaluate and avoid any potential
liability.

Business Strategy

 In February 1998, the Company significantly expanded its operations by
acquiring Commonwealth and Transnation from Reliance Group Holdings, Inc. With
the acquisition, the Company became one of the largest title insurers in the
United States. The long term objective is to strengthen its position
as a premier, low cost national provider of title insurance, information and
closing services for transactions involving the transfer and financing of real
estate. To accomplish this objective, the Company is pursuing various business
strategies designed to enhance growth and maximize profitability throughout the
real estate cycle.

 Expand Distribution Capabilities. The Company seeks to increase its
share of the title insurance market by expanding and enhancing its distribution
channels through the hiring and retention of experienced industry professionals
with strong local relationships, the opening of new direct offices in markets
with the potential for significant transaction volume, appointing new agents and
selectively acquiring or engaging in joint ventures with title insurance
companies and agencies in order to strengthen the presence in
particularly attractive markets. The Company also seeks to increase its share of
title insurance revenues through its multiple brand strategy of marketing
locally through its various title underwriting subsidiaries, which should enable
the Company to capitalize on brand identification, establish more direct offices
and agencies in designated markets and maintain and expand customer
relationships and referral sources. In the case of the acquisition of agencies
or small to medium-size underwriters, the Company reviews the or
 profitability, location, growth potential in its existing market,
claims experience and, in the case of an underwriter, the adequacy of its
reserves.

 Provide Efficient, High Quality Services. Because the Company believes
that service quality is an important factor in competing for title insurance
business, the Company seeks to provide high quality market driven services in a
cost efficient manner. In this regard, the strategy includes the
utilization of technology to further automate the title production process and
the delivery of related services and the increased development and marketing of
multiple products and services to large national and regional mortgage lenders
through the LandAmerica OneStop operation.

 Increase Commercial Title Business. To enhance its position as a
leading provider of title insurance in commercial transactions, the Company
expects to use its increased financial strength and claims-paying ability since
the acquisition of Commonwealth and Transnation to underwrite larger commercial
policies and attract a greater share of the commercial title business.

 Improve Margins and Manage Costs. The Company expects to maintain its
focus on improving the margins through revenue growth and management
of operating costs, including cost reductions through consolidation of back
office operations and the use of temporary or part-time employees to reduce the
 fixed costs, thereby enhancing the responsiveness to changes
in levels of real estate activity.


YEAR 1998, CIK 788885, ______________________________

Item 1. DESCRIPTION 

General Development 

 Pennichuck Corporation (the "Company") is a business corporation
organized under the laws of the State of New Hampshire. The Company is a
holding company, the principal purpose of which is to acquire an interest in or
control of corporations or associations engaging in any lawful activities,
including corporations engaged in the business of gathering and
distributing water and related businesses, and (ii) corporations engaged in the
business of owning, developing and managing real estate.

 The Company has five wholly-owned operating subsidiaries: Pennichuck
Water Works, Inc. ("Pennichuck") which furnishes water service in the City of
Nashua, New Hampshire and portions of Amherst, Bedford, Derry, Epping, Hollis,
Merrimack, Milford, and Plaistow, New Hampshire; (ii) The Southwood Corporation
("Southwood") a New Hampshire business corporation which presently owns,
develops, and manages approximately 800 acres of real estate; (iii) Pennichuck
Water Service Corporation ("Service Corporation"), a New Hampshire business
corporation which is involved in non-regulated, water-related services and
operations; (iv) Pittsfield Aqueduct Company, Inc. ("Pittsfield") which is
franchised to furnish water service in the town of Pittsfield, New Hampshire;
and Pennichuck East Utility, Inc. ("PEU") which is presently seeking a
franchise to furnish water service in the New Hampshire towns of Litchfield,
Londonderry, Windham, Pelham, Hooksett and Atkinson. As discussed more fully
below, Pittsfield was acquired in a stock for stock exchange on January 30,
1998 and PEU was created in February 1998 to conduct the water utility
operations previously provided by another water company franchised to do
business in those portions of southern New Hampshire.

 The predecessor to the Company is Pennichuck Water Works, which was
established in 1852. For 130 years prior to 1983, Pennichuck Water Works
operated solely as a water utility company engaged in the business of supplying
water service in Nashua, New Hampshire and certain areas contiguous to Nashua,
subject to the jurisdiction of the New Hampshire Public Utilities Commission
(the "Commission").

 In 1980, Pennichuck Water Works completed construction of a $7 million
water treatment plant, thereby enabling it to consider other uses for
approximately 1,340 acres of land which, for many years, it had held for
watershed protection purposes. The following year, the New Hampshire Supreme
Court, in an action brought by the City of Nashua (as plaintiff against
Pennichuck Water Works), affirmed its previous rulings that any profits
resulting from the sale of fixed capital should accrue to the benefit of the
shareholders rather than the ratepayers. Principally as a result of these
events, in early 1983, Pennichuck Water Works' shareholders voted to reorganize
into a holding company whereby substantially all of its assets and liabilities
would be transferred to two wholly-owned subsidiary corporations. In connection
with the corporate reorganization, Pennichuck Water Works changed its name to
"Pennichuck Corporation" and Pennichuck and Southwood were formed as the two
new subsidiary corporations.

 Pennichuck, a public utility corporation, acquired by transfer
substantially all of the utility assets of Pennichuck Water Works while major
portions of the non-utility land were transferred to Southwood. The
reorganization also was intended to facilitate opportunities for the Company to
expand and diversify into related or unrelated business activities. The
transfer of utility assets was substantially completed during 1984. The Service
Corporation was formed in 1995 to engage in non-regulated, water-related
services and operations.

Recent Acquisitions

 On January 30, 1998, the Company acquired all of the outstanding common
stock of Pittsfield in exchange for 49,118 common shares of the Company. This
acquisition is intended to be accounted for using the pooling-of-interest
method and accordingly, the historical financial data provided in
future reports will be restated to include Pittsfield data. Pittsfield had been
a privately-owned water utility serving approximately 650 customers in the town
of Pittsfield, New Hampshire. total assets are approximately $2.1
million and its operating revenues for 1998 are expected to be approximately
$450,000.

 On November 5, 1997, the Company entered an Agreement of Purchase and
Sale of Assets with the Town of Hudson, New Hampshire (the "Town") whereby the
Company has agreed to purchase from the Town certain water utility assets
located outside its municipal jurisdiction for $7.5 million. These assets, in
addition to the utility assets located within the Town, are expected to be
purchased by the Town on or about March 30, 1998 from an investor-owned water
utility currently serving the Town and certain surrounding communities. Those
assets to be purchased by the Company will be transferred into PEU. As a result
of this purchase, the Company expects to add approximately 3,600 customers to
its existing customer base and annual revenues from these added customers is
estimated to be $2.3 million. All regulatory approvals relating to this
transaction have not yet been received at this time.

 The combined effect of these two transactions is expected to have a
material impact on the operating results of the Company. The combined annual
revenues of Pittsfield and PEU are estimated to be approximately $2.7 million,
or 23% of the consolidated revenues for 1997, while the addition of
4,250 new customers from these new franchise areas represents a 20% increase in
the water utility customer base. These acquisitions are consistent
with the long-term, strategic plan to expand its franchise and
operating activities outside of core franchise area of Nashua, New
Hampshire.

Financial Information About Industry Segments

 The business segment data of the Company and its subsidiaries for the
latest three years is presented in "Note H - Business Segment Information" in
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included 7 of this
Form 10-KSB Report.

Narrative Description 

Pennichuck Water Works, Inc
 Pennichuck is franchised to gather and distribute water in the City of
Nashua, New Hampshire and in portions of the towns of Amherst, Bedford, Derry,
Epping, Hollis, Merrimack, Milford and Plaistow, New Hampshire. Pennichuck has
transmission mains which directly interconnect its core system in Nashua with
the surrounding towns of Amherst, Hudson, Merrimack and Milford. 
core system, which services 19,972 customers, accounts for 97 percent of
 water revenues and 96 percent of its combined plant in service.
Its franchises in the remaining towns consist of stand-alone satellite water
systems serving 1,065 customers. Pennichuck has no competition in its core
franchise area. Currently, approximately 25 percent of its water revenues are
derived from commercial and industrial customers and approximately 54 percent
from residential customers, with the balance being derived from fire protection
and other billings to municipalities, principally the City of Nashua.

 Pennichuck is engaged as a public utility, subject to the
jurisdiction of the Commission. Pennichuck is regulated by the Commission with
respect to its rates, securities issues and service. New Hampshire law provides
that Pennichuck is entitled to charge rates which permit it to earn a
reasonable return on the cost of the property it employs in serving its
customers, less accrued depreciation and contributed capital ("Rate Base"). The
cost of capital permanently employed by a utility in its utility business marks
the minimum rate of return which a utility is lawfully entitled to earn on its
Rate Base. currently approved water rates are based on a recent
Commission order in March 1998 resulting from its latest approved rate case.
Pursuant to that order, Pennichuck is authorized an overall rate of return of
8.34 percent on an approved rate base of approximately $34,610,000.

 Pennichuck is subject to the water quality regulations promulgated by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). The EPA is required to
periodically set new maximum contaminant levels for certain chemicals as
required by the federal Safe Drinking Water Act ("SDWA"). The quality of
 treated water currently meets or exceeds all standards set by the
EPA and Pennichuck does not anticipate that any significant capital
expenditures for regulatory compliance will be required in the next three years
given the present water quality standards set by the SDWA. The reauthorization
of the SDWA by Congress in 1996 may lead to stricter monitoring standards which
may require additional operating costs for Pennichuck. It is expected that any
additional monitoring and testing costs arising from EPA mandates should
eventually be recouped through water rates.

The Southwood Corporation

 Southwood, the real estate subsidiary, was organized for the
purpose of owning, developing, selling and managing approximately 1,340 acres
of undeveloped land in Nashua and Merrimack, New Hampshire. This land was
formerly owned by Pennichuck Water Works for watershed protection purposes.

 1996, Southwood entered into a joint venture agreement with a local
builder for the development of a 46 unit residential development in the
northwestern part of Nashua. The partnership agreement provided that Southwood
convey the related parcel of land to the partnership in exchange for a
non-interest bearing note from the partnership secured by a second mortgage on
the real estate conveyed. At December 31, 1997, Southwood received partial
payments on the note reflecting the sale of 16 units to third party buyers
during 1997. Southwood accounts for these real estate transactions using the
cost recovery method in which the gain on sale of land to the partnership is
deferred until lots are sold to third parties and any deferred gain is offset
against the related note receivable balance.

 Since 1988, Southwood has been involved in the planning and development
of two major office parks, Southwood Corporate Park and Southwood Business
Park, located at Exit 8 on the F.E. Everett Turnpike in Nashua, New Hampshire.
At the end of 1996, Southwood sold its last remaining lot in the Business Park
to the State of New Hampshire, thereby concluding its real estate ownership
interest in that park. Southwood, however, continues to own approximately 47
acres of land in the Corporate Park which is zoned for commercial use. In July
1995, Southwood entered into an option agreement with a regional real estate
developer for the remaining 47 acres of available land located in Southwood
Corporate Park. Under the terms of that agreement, the developer pays to
Southwood an option fee each year equal to the annual carrying costs associated
with that land. The option agreement is for a minimum term of five years.

 Southwood also owns a 404 acre tract of land in northwest Nashua which is
presently zoned for park-industrial use. In September 1997, Southwood and the
same developer who holds the aforementioned option agreement formed Westwood
Park LLC ("Westwood"), a limited liability corporation, for the purpose of
developing that tract of land. Under the terms of the LLC agreement, Southwood
will contribute that tract of land into the corporation in exchange for a 60
percent ownership interest. The decision to proceed with the development of
this tract was made given the strong demand for commercial and industrial space
reflecting the improvement in the local and economy. However, it is 
intention to defer any infrastructure construction activities until it has
closed on the first sale of land to a certain third party, the proceeds from
which will be used to fund a portion of the infrastructure construction costs.

 Southwood presently has classified its investment in landholdings and
related development costs as long-term "Deferred land costs" in the audited
Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 1997 included 7 of this Form
10-KSB Report. The decision to retain long-term ownership and management or to
implement a plan for periodic liquidation of its developable land will be
dependent on prevailing real estate market conditions and future cash flow
needs.

Pennichuck Water Service Corporation

 In April 1995, the Company formed Pennichuck Water Service Corporation
("Service Corporation"), a wholly-owned subsidiary, for the purpose of
conducting its non-regulated, water-related activities. The contemplated
activities include providing operations and maintenance contract services to
municipalities, water testing and billing services. In 1995, the Service
Corporation entered into a joint venture partnership with a regional water
engineering firm to provide operations and maintenance contract services to the
Town of Cohasset, Massachusetts.

Employees

 The Company and its subsidiaries employ 57 permanent employees and
officers. Of these, there are 32 management and clerical employees who are
non-union. The remaining employees are members of the United Steelworkers
Union. The union contract, which was re-negotiated and completed in February
1997, has been extended through February 2002. In the opinion of management,
employee relations are satisfactory.

YEAR 1999, CIK 921559, ______________________________

ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION 

 KBK Capital Corporation (the "Company") was incorporated in Delaware in
1992 to acquire its wholly owned subsidiary, KBK Financial, Inc. ("KBK"), a
commercial financial institution. KBK, in operation since 1962, is principally
engaged in providing financing to middle-market businesses through loans secured
by accounts receivable, inventory, equipment, owner-occupied real estate or
other assets of the borrower and through the discounted purchase of accounts
receivable. KBK or its predecessors have been engaged in the purchase of
accounts receivable for over thirty-five years. During 1997, KBK completed a
sale of purchased receivables and inventory loans, in which a substantial
portion of such receivables and inventory loans were transferred into KBK
Receivables Corporation ("SPC"), also known as a special purpose corporation.
Under this structure, SPC continues to sell eligible receivables and inventory
loans to a conduit, which in turn issues commercial paper to fund its ongoing
purchase of assets. The assets sold to SPC and the commercial paper conduit
continue to be serviced by KBK, which receives periodic revenue in the form of a
servicing fee as outlined in the servicing agreement.

 In 1992, KBK expanded the then existing Houston, Texas marketing office and
established corporate, regional and national marketing headquarters in Fort
Worth, Texas. Through the acquisition of Coastal Financial Resources, Inc.
("Coastal") in December of 1994, a marketing office was established in New
Orleans, Louisiana giving expanded market coverage across the Gulf Coast. In
addition, the Company established offices in Los Angeles, California in 1996 and
St. Louis, Missouri in 1998.

 The plan for continued growth in 1999 is based primarily on
growth in earning assets from the markets currently served. Continued marketing
of Correspondent Banker Program(TM) has allowed KBK to establish a network
of commercial banks to source deals in exchange for a participation in the deal
or an origination fee. Another element of the growth plan is the
introduction of new products and services. The strategy also includes
the pursuit of opportunistic acquisitions and formation of key partnerships.

 Unless otherwise noted, all references to the "Company" include KBK Capital
Corporation, KBK, SPC and its predecessors. The principal executive offices of
the Company are located at 2200 City Center II, 301 Commerce Street, Fort Worth,
Texas 76102 and the telephone number is (817) 258-6000.


Products and Markets

 The Company is providing financing to middle-market businesses
through loans secured by accounts receivable, inventory, equipment,
owner-occupied real estate or other assets of the borrower and through the
discounted purchase of accounts receivable. During 1998, the Company further
expanded its product line to include a mezzanine product, which offers an
attractive financing alternative for clients whose growth has outpaced their
borrowing capacity from traditional XX debt sources. It is the 
intention to offer a comprehensive product line of financing to commercial
businesses in the middle-market in order to provide a single source of financing
for these businesses. The Company may also generate fees and revenues through
the cross 


 Page 3

selling of third party products to existing customers. These products may
include lease financing and structuring and brokering asset securitizations.

 As of March 1998, Dun & Bradstreet Market Place Information indicated that,
nationwide, there are approximately 390,000 businesses with annual revenues in
the $1 million to $50 million range whose industries the Company feels are
appropriate to target as potential clients. The Company would like to deliver
its products from marketing offices located in at least ten large metropolitan
markets throughout the United States. The opening of an office in St. Louis,
Missouri and the expansion of the California office are consistent with this
strategy of growth.

 The Company has traditionally marketed its services, in part, by soliciting
referrals from providers of financial services to small businesses, such as
commercial bankers, lawyers and accountants. Management believes these sources
refer quality clients who are more likely to have the financial information and
reporting systems required for the purchase of accounts receivable. In
addition, the Company relies on referrals from current and former clients and
direct inquiries from potential clients resulting from the reputation
established over its long tenure in the business. The Company has developed a
formal network of correspondents who bring prospective client packages to KBK
for consideration. Such correspondents receive a fee when the Company actually
advances funds to the client referred. The Company has identified ten standard
metropolitan statistical areas ("") as having the highest concentrations
of small commercial businesses in the United States. The goal is to
develop correspondent networks in a substantial number of the largest
markets. At some point the Company expects to support such correspondent
services through the addition of marketing offices in these locations.


Clients

 The client portfolio of purchased receivables totaled 229 clients
in nineteen different states during 1998 compared to 175 clients in eleven
states during 1997. During 1998, two clients made up more than 5% of total
managed receivables, or 6.5%, and 5.0% of total managed receivables, at year end
1998. The concentration in each of these clients is being reduced through the
participation of loans or accounts receivable purchase facilities to other
financial institutions. The Company requires Board approval if the aggregate of
all facilities (loan and/or working capital facilities) to any single client
(and its affiliates) exceeds $5,000,000 of committed funds.

 The general policy has been to limit its exposure in a single
client to an amount which does not exceed the greater of the allowance
for credit losses ($2.0 million at December 31, 1998, and $1.9 million at
December 31, 1997) or 20% of the net worth ($5.1 million at December
31, 1998, and $4.9 million at December 31, 1997). The Company currently limits
its credit exposure to any one client, net of participations to other financial
institutions, to approximately 25% of capital, or $6 million, after receiving
approval from its Board of Directors. Based on facts and circumstances,
exceptions are made to this policy, with Board approval, and there can be no
assurance that the exposure to a particular client at any time will
not exceed such limits. At December 31, 1998, there were two clients who
exceeded this limitation. The largest client outstanding balance at December 31,
1998, was $10.1 million or 39.7% of net worth, as compared to $7.6 million or
30.9% of net worth at December 31, 1997. The second client had $7.8 million
outstanding at December 31, 1998 or 30.7% of net worth. The Company is in the
process of reducing the client concentration on these accounts to conform to its
current concentration policy.

 The following table indicates the composition of the total volume
of purchased receivables under management by type of client business for the
year ended December 31, 1998, as well as outstanding receivables under
management by type of client business at December 31, 1998, and December 31,
1997, and the related percentages thereon. The Company purchased $669 million of
receivables in 1998, or $135 million increase over the $534 million purchased in
1997.


 Page 4



 GROSS PURCHASED GROSS PURCHASED
 TOTAL VOLUME RECEIVABLES RECEIVABLES
 OF PURCHASED PERCENT UNDER MANAGEMENT PERCENT UNDER MANAGEMENT PERCENT
BUSINESS OF CLIENT RECEIVABLES FOR OF OUTSTANDING AT OF OUTSTANDING AT OF
(RECEIVABLES) THE YEAR 1998 TOTAL DECEMBER 31, 1998 TOTAL DECEMBER 31, 1997 TOTAL
 (dollars in (dollars in (dollars in
 thousands) thousands) thousands)
 
Engineering & Construction $135,315 20.2% $ 13,087 16.5% $ 12,408 16.4% 
Wholesale, Retail Sales .. 102,306 15.3 13,888 17.6 13,837 18.4
Services 67,795 10.1 5,493 6.9 7,158 9.5
Energy Related 67,249 10.1 9,605 12.1 8,635 11.4
Manufacturing 43,850 6.6 3,625 4.6 6,167 8.2
Transportation 25,946 3.9 2,953 3.7 1,389 1.8
Agriculture 24,929 3.7 1,677 2.1 286 .4
Communications 6,704 1.0 809 1.0 886 1.2
Real Estate 1,706 0.3 0 0.0 0 0.0
Environmental Services ... 322 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0
Unclassified 0 0.0 718 0.9 118 0.2
Pool Purchases* 192,940 28.8 27,355 34.6 24,499 32.5
 Total $669,062 100.0% $ 79,210 100.0% $ 75,383 100.0%
 


*Pool purchases are not recorded as individual invoice purchases but as a
collection of invoices which have been purchased and recorded as the aggregate
sum of receivables purchased.

 The following table indicates the composition of the loan
balances under management by type of client business for the years ended
December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the related percentages thereon. The 
outstanding loan balance grew to $75,537, or $40,333 increase over the $35,204
balance at December 31, 1997.




 LOAN BALANCE PERCENT LOAN BALANCE PERCENT
 OUTSTANDING AS OF OF OUTSTANDING AT OF CLIENT (LOANS) DECEMBER 31,1998 TOTAL DECEMBER 31, 1997 TOTAL
 (dollars in (dollars in
 thousands) thousands)
 
Manufacturing $28,442 37.7% $11,734 33.3% 
Energy Related 12,791 16.9 12,793 36.3
Transportation 9,177 12.1 0 .0
Services 8,896 11.8 0 .0
Engineering and Construction 6,601 8.7 7,111 20.2
Other 3,671 4.9 1,560 4.4
Wholesale and Retail Sales 3,032 4.0 1,006 2.9
Agriculture 2,927 3.9 1,000 2.9
 Total $75,537 $100.0% 35,204 100.0%
 

Account Debtors

 During 1998 and 1997, the accounts receivable under management underlying
the working capital facility portfolio represented 7,012 and 7,721
different debtor entities, respectively. The most significant concentration in
1998 was debtors in the wholesale and retail sales industry. This category of
debtors made up 19% of the total balance of purchased receivables under
management outstanding at December 31, 1998, as compared to 24% at December 31,
1997. Due to the long established history in this industry, management
does not feel this level of industry concentration is a significant negative
concentration.


 Page 5





 TOTAL VOLUME GROSS PURCHASED GROSS PURCHASED GROSS PURCHASED 
 OF RECEIVABLES RECEIVABLES RECEIVABLES RECEIVABLES
 UNDER MANAGEMENT UNDER MANAGEMENT UNDER MANAGEMENT UNDER MANAGEMENT
 PURCHASED IN PERCENT OF OUTSTANDING AT PERCENT OF OUTSTANDING AT PERCENT OF
ACCOUNT DEBTORS 1998 TOTAL DECEMBER 31, 1998 TOTAL DECEMBER 31, 1997 TOTAL
 (dollars in (dollars in (dollars in
 thousands) thousands) thousands)
 
Wholesale, Retail Sales .... $156,064 23.3% $ 15,263 19.3% $ 17,860 23.7% 
Energy Related 99,081 14.8 13,749 17.3 10,365 13.8
Transportation 70,980 10.6 6,535 8.3 5,298 7.0
Services 56,563 8.5 6,592 8.3 4,507 6.0
Manufacturing 42,294 6.3 4,660 5.9 3,509 4.7
Engineering & Construction . 19,820 3.0 1,812 2.3 3,286 4.3
Federal, State & Local Govt 17,646 2.6 1,156 1.5 1,332 1.8
Communications 5,174 .8 957 1.2 611 .8
Environmental Services 4,273 .6 95 .1 805 1.0
Real Estate 2,309 .4 305 .4 0 0.0
Agriculture 1,256 .2 75 .1 7 .0
Unclassified 662 .1 656 .8 3,304 4.4
Pool Purchases* 192,940 28.8 27,355 34.5 24,499 32.5
 Totals $669,062 100.0% $ 79,210 100.0% $ 75,383 100.0%
 

*Pool purchases are not recorded as individual invoice purchases but as a
collection of invoices which have been purchased and recorded as the aggregate
sum of receivables purchased.

 During 1998 and 1997, no individual account total receivables
purchased by the Company exceeded 5.0% of the total volume of receivables
purchased during such year. Due to the constantly changing nature of the
 clients and the changing volume and nature of receivables which
clients may offer the Company for purchase, the receivables purchased from the
 clients regularly result in the Company holding receivables from one
account debtor which constitute 5% to 10% of outstanding receivables then held
by the Company. There may also be times when a related group of debtors exceed
such levels of concentration. These concentrations are in excess of the
 allowance for credit losses and can be a significant percentage of the
 net worth. This account debtor concentration exposes the Company to
credit risk with respect to particular account debtors which could have a
material effect on the operations. Although specific exposure limits
are set for each account, which at any time does not generally exceed 20% of the
 net worth, exceptions are regularly made to this policy, and there can
be no assurance that the exposure to a particular account debtor (or
group of affiliated account debtors) will not at any time exceed such
percentage.


Competition

 The Company encounters significant competition from factoring companies,
asset based lenders, commercial banks and other financial institutions engaged
in secured lending. Due to the size of facilities offered by the Company and the
size of target clients, the Company competes with a large number of local and
regional sources of financing, as well as large national competitors. Many of
these competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than
the Company and have access to capital markets at a lower cost than the Company
is currently able to obtain.

 The larger competitors include Heller Financial, CIT, and
Associates Capital. Other competitors include Congress Financial, FINOVA, the
Foothill Group, a subsidiary of NORWEST, and Fremont Financial. Competitors in
the working capital product area include Riviera Finance, Creekwood Financial,
and Metro Factors. The competition for earning assets has had the effect of
reducing yields due to the competitive nature of the business and the increasing
strength of many clients in the current economic expansion.


Government Regulation

 FEDERAL ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS ACT. In connection with certain of its clients
whose account debtors include the United States or departments or agencies
thereof (the "Federal Government"), certain receivables sold or pledged to the
Company are subject to 


 Page 6

the Federal Assignment of Claims Act ("FACA"). FACA provides that an assignment
of a contractual claim for monies due from the Federal Government will
be enforceable against the Federal Government by a third party assignee of such
client only under limited circumstances. Certain aspects of the 
purchased or pledged receivables make compliance with FACA impractical or
impossible, or make the protections afforded by FACA unavailable to the Company.
As a result, the Company does not always comply with FACA when it purchases or
receives a pledge of receivables where the Federal Government is the account
debtor, causing all assignments of receivables purchased by the Company to which
the Federal Government is the account debtor to be unenforceable by the Company
as regards the Federal Government. Such failure to comply with FACA has no
effect on the validity of assignment or pledge among the Company, the client and
third parties other than the Federal Government. Non-compliance with FACA causes
the Company to lose any right it may have to receive payments directly from the
Federal Government or cause the Federal Government to acknowledge the 
claim in such receivables. However, FACA does not limit the ability to
require its clients to direct payments made by the Federal Government to a
lockbox controlled by the Company. The Federal Government also has significant
rights of setoff in connection with its contractual payments. Typically, the
Company can protect itself from certain rights of setoff by account debtors,
either by pursuing its rights against clients for breach of representation
regarding the absence of setoffs with respect to purchased receivables, or
sending the account debtors a notice of assignment pursuant to the Uniform
Commercial Code. In cases where the Federal Government is the account debtor, an
assignee must comply with FACA in order to protect itself from such setoffs,
thus the Company is unable to avail itself of such protection (other than by
pursuing its rights against clients for breach of representations). The Federal
Government has broad setoff rights, including setoffs for unpaid taxes and
setoffs arising from other contracts between the client and the Federal
Government. During 1998 and 1997, respectively, the Federal Government comprised
2.6% and 1.7% of the account debtors for the total volume of purchased
receivables under management. The Company has not experienced a disproportionate
dilution rate with respect to such receivables compared to other of the
 receivables.

 STATE LAWS. Usury laws generally limit the amount of interest that a
creditor may contract for, charge or receive in connection with the loan of
money. In the State of Texas (in which the primary offices are
presently located), state law prohibits creditors from contracting for,
charging, reserving, taking or receiving interest at a rate in excess of a
varying index. For loans in which the interest rate is fixed, the usury ceiling
is equal to the index preceding the week in which the contract is entered into.
For varying rate loans, the index floats. Under the provisions of Texas law, the
index may never exceed 24% per year (or, in the case purpose loans
exceeding $250,000, 28% per year). If the amount of the index is less than 18%
per year, the creditor may, nevertheless, charge interest pursuant to a written
agreement at the rate of 18% per year. Because of the low interest rate
environment, the Texas usury ceiling has, since early in 1985, prohibited a
business creditor from contracting for, charging, reserving, taking or receiving
interest at a rate in excess of 18% per year. Section 339.004 of the Texas
Finance Code defines an "account purchase transaction" as an agreement in which
a commercial enterprise sells accounts receivable at a discount with or without
a related repurchase obligation. This law provides that the amount of any
discount associated with the purchase or any fees paid to an account service
provider is not interest. Also, Section 9.102 of the Texas Business & Commerce
Code provides that the parties' characterization of an account purchase
transaction is conclusive that the transaction is not a loan.


Employees

 The Company had 77 full-time and two part-time employees at December 31,
1998, of whom eight were employed in executive and administrative positions and
sixteen (including one executive officer) were employed in marketing. None of
the employees are a party to any collective bargaining agreement, and
the Company considers its relations with employees to be satisfactory.


YEAR 1999, CIK 1043325, ______________________________

Item 1. Business.

General

Charter Municipal Mortgage Acceptance Company (the "Company") is a Delaware
business trust which is engaged in the acquisition and ownership (either
directly or indirectly) of tax-exempt participating and non-participating First
Mortgage Bonds ("FMBs") issued by various state or local governments or other
agencies or authorities and secured by participating and non-participating
mortgage loans on the underlying properties ("Underlying Properties"). As of
December 31, 1998, the Company owned a portfolio of 49 FMBs. The Company is
organized and managed as a single business segment.

The Underlying Properties securing the bonds are garden apartments located in
nineteen metropolitan markets in fourteen states. The properties range in size
from 70 units to 550 units with an average size of 231 units. All of the
properties have an amenity package, competitive for their respective markets,
with many including swimming pools, clubhouses, exercise rooms and tennis
courts. There are 18 FMBs, which were acquired in 1997 and 1998, with Underlying
Properties either under construction or undergoing major rehabilitation. The
remaining 31 properties in the portfolio average 9-11 years in age. The
portfolio reports an average occupancy of 94.3% as of February 28, 1999. Net
operating income, in the aggregate, at the Underlying Properties has increased
an average of approximately 3% per annum since 1992.

The Company does not operate as a mortgage REIT, which generally utilize high
levels of leverage and acquire subordinated interests in commercial and/or
residential mortgage- backed securities. Rather, the Company utilizes low levels
of leverage and generally originates and acquires long-term, fixed-rate,
tax-exempt FMBs. As a result, the Company did not expect to experience the
ill-effects associated with the volatile interest rate environment during 1998.

Pursuant to its Trust Agreement, the Company is only able to incur leverage or
other financing up to 50% of the Total Market Value (as defined in the
Trust Agreement) as of the date incurred (the "50% Limit"). The Company expects
to seek shareholder approval at the 1999 annual meeting to amend the Trust
Agreement to permit the Company to exceed the 50% Limit with respect to short
term borrowings of no more than approximately 5% of Total Market Value. Mortgage
REITs typically incur leverage at ratios ranging from between 3:1 to 10:1. In
general, the FMBs that the Company either originates or acquires call for
ten-year restrictions from prepayments, eliminating the susceptibility
to significant levels of repayment risk as a result of interest rate reductions.
Consistent with the foregoing, the Company focuses on providing investors with a
stable level of distributions, even through unstable markets.

Due to the low level of leverage, the Company has not been affected by
the recent lack of liquidity that is currently impairing mortgage REITs and its
portfolio does not contain assets that are especially vulnerable to volatility
during periods of interest rate fluctuations.

Organization

The Company was formed on October 1, 1997 as the result of the consolidation
(the "Consolidation") of three publicly registered limited partnerships, Summit
Tax Exempt Bond Fund, L.P. ("Tax Exempt I"), Summit Tax Exempt L.P. II ("Tax
Exempt II") and Summit Tax Exempt L.P. III ("Tax Exempt III") (the
"Partnerships", and each individually a "Partnership"). One of the general
partners of the Partnerships was an affiliate of Related Capital Company
("Related"). Unless otherwise indicated, the "Company", as hereinafter used,
refers to Charter Municipal Mortgage Acceptance Company and its subsidiary and,
for references prior to October 1, 1997, refers to Tax Exempt II. Pursuant to
the Consolidation, the Company issued shares of beneficial interest (the
"Shares") to all partners in each of the Partnerships in exchange for their
interests in the Partnerships based upon each proportionate interest
in the Shares issued to their Partnership in the Consolidation. The Shares
commenced trading on the American Stock Exchange on October 1, 1997 under the
symbol "CHC". As of December 31, 1998, there were 20,579,448 Shares outstanding.

For financial accounting and reporting purposes, the Consolidation was accounted
for using the purchase method of accounting. Under this method, the Partnership
with the investor group receiving the largest ownership in the Company, in this
case Tax Exempt II, is deemed to be the acquirer. As the surviving entity for
accounting purposes, Tax Exempt assets and liabilities were recorded by the
Company at their historical cost, with the assets and liabilities of the other
Partnerships recorded at their estimated fair values for each Partnership (an
aggregate of approximately $158,129,000) as set forth in the Solicitation
Statement of the Company dated June 18, 1997 (the "Solicitation Statement").
Results of operations and other operating financial data for the Company for the
years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 include information for the entire
periods presented with respect to Tax Exempt II, but only include information
for the period October 1, 1997 to December 31, 1998 with respect to the other
Partnerships. Prior to the Consolidation, Tax Exempt II was a limited
partnership which was formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on April
11, 1986. The general partners of Tax Exempt II were Related Tax Exempt
Associates II, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Related General Partner"), and
Prudential Bache Properties, Inc. ("PBP"). The general partners managed and
controlled the affairs of Tax Exempt II prior to the Consolidation.

The Company is governed by a board of trustees comprised of two independent
managing trustees and three managing trustees who are affiliated with Related.
The Company has engaged Related Charter LP (the "Manager"), an affiliate of
Related, to manage its day-to-day affairs. Each independent trustee is entitled
to receive annual compensation for serving as a trustee in the aggregate amount
of $15,000, payable in cash (maximum of $5,000 per year) and/or Shares valued
based on the fair market value at the date of issuance. On June 4, 1998, 186
shares, having an aggregate value of $2,500 as of that date, were issued to each
independent trustee as compensation for their services for the quarter ended
December 31, 1997. Through the Manager, Related offers the Company 


 -3-



a core group of experienced staff and executive management, who provide the
Company with services on both a full and part-time basis. These services
include, among other things, acquisition, financial, accounting, capital
markets, asset monitoring, portfolio management, investor relations and public
relations services. The Company believes that it benefits significantly from its
relationship with Related, since Related provides the Company with resources
that are not generally available to small-capitalized, self-managed companies.

As part of the settlement of class action litigation relating to the
Partnerships, counsel ("Class Counsel") for the partners of the Partnerships had
the right to petition the United States District Court for the Southern District
of New York (the "Court") for additional attorneys' fees (" Fee
Shares") in an amount to be determined in the sole discretion. The
 Fee Shares are based upon a percentage (which Class Counsel proposed
to be 25%) of the increase in value of the Company, ("the Added Value") if any,
as of October 1, 1998 based upon the difference between the trading prices
of the shares of beneficial interest during the six month period ended
October 1, 1998 and (ii) the trading prices of the limited partnership units and
the asset values of the Partnerships prior to October 1, 1997. As of October 1,
1998, 25% of the Added Value amounted to $7,788,536 and, in accordance with an
Order and Stipulation of Settlement by the Court on February 18, 1999, Class
Counsel is entitled to receive 608,955 shares of beneficial interest in the
Company. The shares will be distributed to Class Counsel quarterly in eight
equal distributions commencing within ten business days after Class Counsel
advises the Company in writing of the persons in whose name the shares are to be
issued. One-half of such shares will be in the form of Restricted Securities
(restricted only with respect to the sale, assignment, pledge or other transfer
of such securities) and the remaining one-half of such shares will be
unrestricted. Restrictions on the Restricted Securities expire one year from the
date of issuance. Management is currently negotiating a discounted cash
settlement with Class Counsel in lieu of the issuance of shares; however, any
such settlement would require the approval of the Board of Trustees and there
can be no assurance that such negotiations will be successful.

Business Plan

The Company has initiated a focused business/strategic plan designed to increase
cash available for distribution ("CAD"), generate increased tax-exempt income
and as a result enhance the value of its stock. The plan concentrates
principally on the origination and acquisition of additional tax-exempt FMBs
secured by multfamily properties. The Company believes that it can earn above
market rates of interest on its bond acquisitions by focusing its efforts
primarily on affordable housing. The Manager estimates that nearly 50% of all
new multifamily development contains an affordable component which produces tax
credits pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Manager also
believes that each year a growing number of these properties are financed with
tax-exempt bonds. The Company has designed a Direct Purchase Program
specifically designed to appeal to developers of such properties. In general,
these properties are smaller than traditional multifamily housing properties,
averaging 150 units. The traditional method of financing tax-exempt properties
requires the involvement of credit enhancement, rating agencies and investment
bankers. Therefore, the up-front cost of such financing is generally much higher
than traditional multifamily financing. Through its Direct Purchase Program, the
Company will originate and acquire tax-exempt bonds without the cost associated
with credit enhancement, rating agencies and investment bankers. The Company
believes that the up-front cost savings to the developer will translate into a
higher than market interest rate on the bonds acquired by the Company.

The Company is positioned to market its Direct Purchase Program as a result of
the affiliation with Related. Related and its predecessor companies
have specialized in offering debt and equity products to mid-market multifamily
owners and developers for over 25 years. Related has provided debt and equity
financing to properties valued at over $7.8 billion. In addition, since 1987
Related has been one of the leading provider of equity to developers of
multifamily housing which benefits from tax credits. During 1998, the 
affiliation with Related allowed it to become one of the dominant lenders to
developers and owners of affordable housing financed with tax-exempt bonds.

During 1998, the growth was financed by the Private Label Tender
Option Program ("TOP") or similar programs, borrowings under the Interim Credit
Facility (see below), funds generated from operations in excess of distributions
and placements of equity. The Company is currently negotiating an increase in
its TOP from $150 million to $200 million and, before the end of 1999, the
Company expects to raise funds through an equity offering; however, there can be
no assurance that either of these initiatives will be successful. During the
period January 1, 1998 through December 31, 1998, the Company acquired 17 FMBs
(see Note 3 to the financial statements in 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data").

Structure of Existing First Mortgage Bonds

The principal and interest payments on each FMB are payable only from the cash
flows of the Underlying Properties, including proceeds from a sale of an
Underlying Property or the refinancing of the mortgage loan securing such FMBs
(the "Mortgage Loans"). None of the FMBs constitute a general obligation of any
state or local government, agency or authority. The structure of each Mortgage
Loan mirrors the structure of the corresponding FMB which it secures.

The seasoned original 31 FMBs call for interest only debt service payments
during their respective terms (which generally are 24 to 30 years from issuance
or re-issuance) with repayment of principal due in a lump sum "balloon" payment
at the expiration of their respective terms or upon sale or refinancing. The
newly acquired bonds (bonds acquired in 1997 and 1998) call for amortization or
"sinking fund" payments, generally at the completion of rehabilitation or
construction, of principal based on thirty to forty year level debt service
amortization schedules. On all the FMBs the Company generally has the right to
require redemption approximately 12 to 15 years from issuance or re-issuance and
obligors generally are locked out of prepayment for seven to ten years from
issuance or re-issuance.

In addition to the stated base rates of interest of the FMBs which range from
4.87% to 8.5% per annum, certain of the FMBs provide for "contingent interest"
which is equal to: an amount equal to 50% to 100% of net property cash flow
and 50% to 100% of net sale or refinancing proceeds until the borrower has paid,
during the post-construction period, annual compound interest at a rate 


 -4-



ranging from 8.875% to 9.34% on a cumulative basis, and thereafter (ii) an
amount equal to 25% to 50% of the remaining net property cash flow and 25% to
50% of the remaining net sale or refinancing proceeds, until the borrower has
paid interest at a simple annual rate of 16% over the term of the FMB. Both the
stated and contingent interest on the FMBs are exempt from federal income
taxation. During the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, six, five and
two FMBs, paid contingent interest amounting to approximately $960,000, $353,000
and $220,000, respectively.

Structure of Modified First Mortgage Bonds

Certain of the have been modified reflecting current market conditions.
These modifications have generally encompassed an extension of the maturity
(10-20 years) together with a prepayment lock-out feature and/or prepayment
penalties together with an extension of the mandatory redemption feature (5-10
years from modification). Stated interest rates have also been adjusted together
with a change in the participation and contingent interest features. Base
interest rates, contingent interest, prepayment lock-outs, mandatory redemption
and maturity features vary dependent on the facts of a particular FMB, the
developer, the Underlying performance and requirements of bond
counsel and local issuers. During 1998, the Highland Ridge, Willow Creek,
Bristol Village, Thomas Lake and Mansion FMBs were modified (see Note 3 to the
financial statements in 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data").
The Company currently anticipates that it will modify certain other FMBs to
reflect generally similar terms as those modified previously and in 1998, where
and as appropriate.

Structure of New First Mortgage Bonds

Newly acquired FMBs will generally bear a fixed base interest rate and, to the
extent permitted by existing regulations, they may or may not also provide for
contingent interest. Terms are expected to be 5 to 35 years, although the
Company may have the right to cause repayment prior to maturity through a
mandatory redemption feature (5 to 7 years with up to 6 notice). In some
cases, the principal of an FMB may amortize.

New FMBs are generally not expected to be subject to optional prepayment during
the first 5-10 years of the ownership of the bonds and may carry
prepayment penalties thereafter beginning at 5% of the outstanding principal
balance, declining by 1% per annum. Certain new FMBs may be purchased at a
discount from their face value. Up to 15% of the Total Market Value of the
Company may be invested in FMBs secured by Underlying Properties in which
affiliates of the Manager have a controlling interest, equity interest or
security interest. The 15% limit is not applicable to properties to which the
Manager or its affiliates have taken title for the benefit of the Company and
only applies to new FMBs acquired after the consolidation. In selected
circumstances and only in connection with the acquisition of tax-exempt FMBs the
Company may acquire a small amount of taxable bonds to fund certain costs
associated with the issuance of FMBs, that under current law cannot be funded by
FMBs.

First Mortgage Bonds - General

In order to protect the tax exempt status of the FMBs, the owners of the
Underlying Properties are required to enter into certain agreements to own,
manage and operate such Underlying Properties in accordance with requirements of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

No single FMB provided interest income which exceeded 10% of the total
revenue for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, except for the
Bristol Village and Pelican Cove FMBs which provided 14% and 11%, respectively,
of total revenue in 1996.

Based on the face amount of FMBs at December 31, 1998, approximately 23% of the
Underlying Properties are located in California, 15% are located in Florida, 14%
are located in Missouri, 10% are located in Georgia and 10% are located in
Minnesota. No other states comprise more than 10% of the total face amount.

From time to time the Company has advanced funds to owners of certain Underlying
Properties in order to preserve the underlying asset including completion of
construction and/or when Underlying Properties have experienced operating
difficulties including past due real estate taxes and/or deferred maintenance
items. Such advances typically are secured by promissory notes and/or second
mortgages. As of December 31, 1998, the face amount of such advances was
$12,845,308, and their carrying value was $7,628,920, which is net of purchase
accounting adjustments, and a reserve for collectibility of $138,000.

The original obligors and owners of the Underlying Properties of the Cedar
Creek, Cypress Run, Highpointe, Greenway Manor, Sunset Terrace, Pelican Cove,
Loveridge, Sunset Downs, Sunset Creek and Sunset Village FMBs have been replaced
with affiliates of the Manager who have not made equity investments. These
entities have assumed the day-to-day responsibilities and obligations of the
Underlying Properties. Buyers are being sought who would make equity investments
in the Underlying Properties and assume the nonrecourse obligations for the FMB.
These properties are generally paying as interest an amount equal to the net
cash flow generated by operations, which in some cases is less than the stated
rate of the FMB. The Company has no present intention of declaring a default on
these FMBs. The aggregate carrying value of these ten FMBs at December 31, 1998
was approximately $105,402,000 and the income earned from them for the year
ended December 31, 1998 was approximately $7,497,000.

From time to time, the Company enters into forbearance agreements and/or
permanent modifications with certain borrowers. The determination as to whether
it is in the best interest of the Company to enter into permanent modifications
or forbearance agreements on the FMBs, advance second mortgages, or
alternatively, to pursue its remedies under the loan documents, including
foreclosure, is based upon several factors. These factors include, but are not
limited to, Underlying Property performance, owner cooperation and projected
costs of foreclosure and litigation. Payments under each of the existing
forbearance agreements are current as of December 31, 1998.

With respect to the FMBs which are subject to forbearance agreements with the
respective obligors, the difference between the stated interest rates and the
rates paid (whether deferred and payable out of available future cash flow or,
ultimately, from sale or refinancing proceeds) on FMBs is not accrued for
financial statement purposes. The accrual of interest at the stated interest
rate 


 -5-



will resume once an Underlying ability to pay the stated rate
has been adequately demonstrated. Unrecorded contractual interest income was
approximately $3,047,000, $2,415,000 and $1,407,000 for the years ended December
31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.




 -6-



 CHARTER MUNICIPAL MORTGAGE ACCEPTANCE COMPANY

The following table lists the FMBs that the Company owns together with the
occupancy and rental rates of the Underlying Properties:



 Carrying Average Minimum
 Face Amount Interest Stated Pay Rate at Occupancy at Rental Rates No. of
 Closing Amount at December Rate Paid Interest December 31, February 14, at December Rental
Property Date of Bond 31, 1998 for 1998* Rate* 1998* 1999 31, 1998 Units
 
The Mansion, 
 Independence, MO 5/13/86 $19,450,000 $20,084,000 7.68% 7.25% 7.25% 92.3% $460-805 550
 Creek, 
Summerville, SC 5/20/86 7,300,000 8,443,000 8.25 8.25 8.25 99.0 450-710 200
East Ridge, 
 Mt. Pleasant, SC 5/20/86 8,700,000 10,063,000 8.25 8.25 8.25 99.0 565-820 200
Highpointe Club, 
 Harrisburg, PA 7/29/86 8,900,000 5,888,000 6.12 8.50 90.3 530-725 240
Cypress Run, 
 Tampa, FL 8/14/86 15,402,428 13,067,000 5.84 8.50 87.6 460-775 408
Thomas Lake, 
 Eagan, MN 9/02/86 12,975,000 13,643,000 7.50 7.50 7.50 98.6 758-1,247 216
North Glen, 
 Atlanta, GA 9/30/86 12,400,000 12,914,000 7.00 7.00 7.00 94.3 560-875 284
Greenway Manor, 
 St. Louis, MO 10/09/86 12,850,000 15,313,000 8.93 8.50 8.50 90.6 495-595 312
Clarendon Hills, 
 Hayward, CA 12/08/86 17,600,000 13,880,000 6.31 5.52 5.52 96.4 925-1,395 285
Cedar Creek, 
 McKinney, TX 12/29/86 8,100,000 9,653,000 8.50 8.50 8.50 89.8 525-845 250
Sunset Terrace, 
 Lancaster, CA 2/12/87 10,350,000 7,981,000 5.23 8.00 96.2 485-740 184
Bay Club, 
 Mt. Pleasant, SC 9/11/86 6,400,000 7,403,000 8.25 8.25 8.25 97.5 620-680 164
Loveridge, 
 Contra Costa, CA 11/13/86 8,550,000 6,593,000 5.00 8.00 86.3 640-875 148
The Lakes, 
 Kansas City, MO 12/30/86 13,650,000 10,024,000 5.64 4.87 4.87 92.9 435-630 400
Crowne Pointe, 
 Olympia, WA 12/31/86 5,075,000 5,692,000 8.00 8.00 8.00 95.5 495-795 160
Orchard Hills, 
 Tacoma, WA 12/31/86 5,650,000 6,337,000 8.00 8.00 8.00 98.8 465-755 174
Highland Ridge, 
 St. Paul, MN 2/02/87 15,000,000 15,247,000 7.30 7.25 7.25 97.4 775-1,285 228
Newport Village, 
 Tacoma, WA 2/11/87 13,000,000 14,581,000 8.77 8.00 8.00 90.7 460-600 402
Sunset Downs, 
 Lancaster, CA 2/11/87 15,000,000 11,566,000 5.07 8.00 94.7 485-740 264
Pelican Cove, 
 St. Louis, MO 2/27/87 18,000,000 20,189,000 7.89 8.00 95.7 495-680 402
Willow Creek, 
 Ames, IA 2/27/87 6,100,000 6,200,000 7.44 7.25 7.25 100.0 525-825 138
Cedar Pointe, 
 Nashville, TN 4/22/87 9,500,000 9,323,000 7.00 7.00 7.00 96.2 525-810 210
 
 

 -7-





 Carrying Average Minimum
 Face Amount Interest Stated Pay Rate at Occupancy at Rental Rates No. of
 Closing Amount at December Rate Paid Interest December 31, February 14, at December Rental
Property Date of Bond 31, 1998 for 1998* Rate* 1998* 1999 31, 1998 Units
 
Shannon Lake, 
 Atlanta, GA 6/26/87 $12,000,000 $11,536,000 6.00% 6.00% 94.5% $405-810 294
Bristol Village, 
 Bloomington, MN 7/31/87 17,000,000 17,875,000 7.50 7.50% 7.50 96.5 735-1,269 290
Suntree, 
 Ft. Myers, FL 7/31/87 7,500,000 7,586,000 6.59 8.00 6.50 97.5 465-620 240
River Run, 
 Miami, FL 8/07/87 7,200,000 8,075,000 9.11 8.00 8.00 92.6 673-890 164
Players Club, 
 Ft. Myers, FL 8/14/87 9,700,000 8,704,000 6.22 8.00 6.25 75.7 460-600 288
Lakepoint, 
 Dekalb City, GA 11/18/87 15,100,000 12,702,000 6.00 6.00 6.00 95.3 575-825 360
Sunset Village, 
 Lancaster, CA 3/25/88 11,375,000 8,771,000 5.45 8.50 94.4 485-740 204
Sunset Creek, 
 Lancaster, CA 3/25/88 8,275,000 6,381,000 5.14 8.50 94.4 485-740 148
Orchard Mill, 
 Atlanta, GA 5/1/89 10,500,000 10,252,000 6.57 7.50 5.00 96.6 535-745 238
Countryside North 
 Memphis, TN 12/11/97 5,000,000 5,100,000 7.50 7.50 7.50 86.0 431-586 152
Ocean Air 
 Norfolk, VA 4/20/98 10,000,000 10,000,000 7.25 7.25 7.25 85.0 320-395 434
Phoenix 
 Stockton, CA 4/28/98 3,250,000 3,250,000 7.125 7.125 7.125 38.0 409-562 184
Stone Creek 
Watsonville, CA 4/28/98 8,820,000 8,820,000 7.125 7.125 7.125 120
Cedarbrook 
 Hanford, CA 4/28/98 2,840,000 2,840,000 7.125 7.125 7.125 100 434-554 70
Marsh Landings 
 Portsmouth, VA 5/20/98 6,050,000 6,050,000 7.25 7.25 7.25 16.8 295-335 250
College Park 
 Naples, FL 7/15/98 10,100,000 10,100,000 7.00 7.00 210
Gulfstream 
 Dania, FL 7/22/98 3,500,000 3,500,000 7.25 7.25 7.25 31.3 575-650 96
Bedford Square 
 Clovis, CA 8/25/98 3,850,000 3,850,000 7.00 7.00 55.5 381-456 130
Northpointe Villag 
 Fresno, CA 8/25/98 13,250,000 13,250,000 8.085 8.125 43.3 381-456 406
Falcon Creek 
 Indianapolis, IN 9/14/98 6,144,600 6,144,600 7.00 7.00 131
Jubilee Courtyards 
 Florida City, FL 9/15/98 4,150,000 4,150,000 7.00 7.00 98
Silvercrest 
 Clovis, CA 9/24/98 2,275,000 2,275,000 7.125 7.125 7.125 100
Carrington Pointe 
 Los Banos, CA 9/24/98 3,375,000 3,375,000 6.375 6.375 6.375 80
Madalyn Landing 
 Palm Bay, FL 11/13/98 14,000,000 14,000,000 7.00 7.00 7.00 304
 
 
 -8-




 Carrying Average Minimum
 Face Amount Interest Stated Pay Rate at Occupancy at Rental Rates No. of
 Closing Amount at December Rate Paid Interest December 31, February 14, at December Rental
Property Date of Bond 31, 1998 for 1998* Rate* 1998* 1999 31, 1998 Units
 
Forest Hills
 Garner, NC 12/15/98 $ 5,930,000 $ 5,930,000 7.125% 7.125% 7.125% 83.0% $540-650 136
Lake Jackson
 Lake Jackson, TX 12/22/98 10,934,000 10,934,000 7.00 7.00 7.00 160
Mountain Ranch
 Austin, TX 12/23/98 9,128,000 9,128,000 7.125 7.125 7.125 212
 $471,199,028 $458,662,600
 

*The average interest rate paid represents the interest recorded by the Company
while the stated interest rate represents the coupon rate of the FMB and the
minimum pay rate represents the minimum rate payable pursuant to the applicable
forbearance agreement, if any.

 The interest rates for Jubilee Courtyards are 7% through September 30,
 2000 and 7.125% thereafter.

 The minimum pay rate is the current cash flow of the property.

 Includes contingent interest paid during 1998.

 Includes receipt of deferred base interest relating to prior periods.

 Includes receipt of primary and supplemental contingent interest.

 The minimum pay rate on the FMB is scheduled to increase to the stated
 interest rate over the remaining term of the FMB.

 The FMBs are carried at their estimated fair values at December 31, 1998.

 The property is still in the construction phase.

 Includes receipt of primary contingent interest.

 Pursuant to a bond modification as of October 1, 1997 which lowered the
 base interest rate to 7.50% effective October 1, 1997, subject to a
 minimum pay rate of 5% through June 30, 2000.

 Pursuant to a forbearance agreement as of October 1, 1997 which lowered
 the base interest rate to 7% through June 30, 2000 and 7.50% thereafter.

 The property is still in the rehabilitation phase.

 Pursuant to a bond modification as of October 1, 1997, the base interest
 rate was lowered to 6% through July 31, 2000 and 7% thereafter.

 The interest rates for College Park are 7% during the construction period
 and 7.25% thereafter.

 The interest rates for Bedford Square are 7% during the construction
 period and 6.375% thereafter.

 The interest rates for Northpointe Village are 7.965% through September
 23, 1998, 8.125% during the remainder of the construction period and 7.5%
 thereafter.

 The interest rates for Falcon Creek are 7% through August 31, 2000 and
 7.25% thereafter.


 -9-



Private Label Tender Option Program

On May 21, 1998, the Company closed on its Private Label Tender Option Program
("TOP") in order to raise additional capital of $150 million to acquire
additional FMBs. During 1998, the Company contributed 39 issues of FMBs in the
aggregate principal amount of approximately $385,907,000 to a Delaware business
trust (the "Origination Trust"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, which
then contributed 27 of those FMBs with an aggregate principal amount of
approximately $233,105,000, to another Delaware business trust (the "Owner
Trust"). The Owner Trust issued two equity certificates: ( i) a XX
Certificate, with an outstanding face amount of $150,000,000 at December 31,
1998, which has been deposited into another Delaware business trust (the
"Certificate Trust") which issued and sold Floater Certificates representing
proportional interests in the XX Certificate to new investors; and (ii) a
Residual Certificate representing the remaining beneficial ownership interest in
the Owner Trust, which has been issued to the Origination Trust, whose sole
owner is the Company. In addition, the Owner Trust obtained a municipal bond
insurance policy from MBIA to credit enhance Certificate distributions for the
benefit of the holders of the Floater Certificates and has also arranged for a
liquidity facility, issued by a consortium of highly rated European banks, with
respect to the Floater Certificates.

The end result of these transactions is that a portion of the interest received
by the Owner Trust on the FMBs it holds is distributed through the XX
Certificate to the holders of the Floater Certificates in an amount determined
each week by the remarketing agent, Goldman Sachs & Co., at the distribution
amount that is required to enable the remarketing agent to sell the Floater
Certificates at par on any weekly determination date.

Currently, the maximum amount of Floater Certificates that can be issued to
raise capital under the TOP is $150 million and as of December 31, 1998 such
maximum has been issued. The Company is currently negotiating an increase in its
TOP to $200 million; however, there can be no assurance that such negotiations
will be successful.

The cost of funds relating to the TOP (calculated as income allocated
to the minority interest plus current fees as a percentage of the weighted
average amount of the outstanding XX Certificate) was approximately 4.9% for
the period May 21, 1998 (inception) through December 31, 1998.

Note Payable

During 1998, an interim credit facility with Goldman Sachs & Company (the
"Interim Credit Facility") was available to the Company at prevailing rates of
interest for such accounts (5.98% at December 14, 1998). At December 31, 1998
there were no borrowings outstanding. The Company is currently negotiating with
Goldman Sachs & Company and various other lenders the renewal or replacement of
this facility.

The outstanding face amount of the XX Certificate and indebtedness under the
Interim Credit Facility, together with any other leveraging of the Company, will
not exceed 50% of the total Market Value (as defined in the Trust
Agreement) as of the date incurred.

Competition

The Manager and/or its affiliates have formed, and may continue to form, various
entities to engage es which may be competitive with the Company.

The Company is affected by competition to the extent that the
Underlying Properties from which it derives interest and, ultimately, principal
payments may be subject to competition relating to rental rates and relative
levels of amenities from offered by comparable neighboring properties.

Employees

The Company has no employees. Management and administrative services for the
Company are performed by the Manager and its affiliates pursuant to the
Management Agreement between the Company and the Manager dated October 1, 1997
(the "Management Agreement"). The Manager receives compensation for such
services and the Company reimburses the Manager and certain of its affiliates
for expenses incurred in connection with the performance by their employees of
services for the Company in accordance with the Management Agreement (see Note 7
to the Financial Statements included in 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data").

Recent Legislation

The State of California recently adopted an administrative amendment to the
allocation plan pursuant to which they award bond value capital to developers
of multifamily housing. The amendment will require, in many cases, up to 15% of
debt financing for such properties to be a form of taxable financing. Therefore,
in certain cases, the Company may be required to offer taxable financing to
California developers in order to be competitive.

YEAR 1998, CIK 67618, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General Development 

 Monmouth Capital Corporation (the Company) operates as a
real estate company which owns real estate investments and sells
and finances manufactured homes. The Company is a corporation
organized in the State of New Jersey. The Company commenced
operations in 1961.

 Prior to fiscal 1994, the Company operated as a small
business investment company under the Small Business Investment
Company Act of 1958 and as an investment company under the
Investment Company Act of 1940. As such, the Company was able to
distribute its income prior to income taxes as dividends to
shareholders. The Company was allowed a deduction from taxable
income for these distributions.

 With shareholder approval, the Company surrendered its
license to operate as a small business investment company and
deregistered as an investment company. On January 15, 1993, the
Small Business Administration approved the surrender of the
 license. On July 20, 1993, the Securities and Exchange
Commission entered an Order that the Company had ceased to be an
investment company. Since the Company is no longer an investment
company, earnings are now fully taxable.

 Certain members of the Board of Directors manage 
two real estate investment trusts. In 1995, the Company success-
fully completed a Rights Offering to its shareholders. The
Company raised approximately $1,600,000 after expenses bringing
total equity to approximately $4,500,000. The Company intends
to raise additional capital through rights offerings and other
placements and use the proceeds to acquire additional real
estate properties.

Narrative Description of the Business

 Prior to fiscal 1994, the Company made loans to small
business concerns located throughout the northeast region of the
United States. Generally, these loans were collateralized by
commercial or residential real property. The Company currently 
finances the sales of manufactured homes. A description of the
 existing loan portfolio of $2,031,652 is incorporated
herein by reference to Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements - Loans Receivable.




 -2-




 On March 31, 1994, the Company purchased its first real
estate investment, a net leased industrial building in Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania. This building is net leased to three tenants with
leases expiring from 1998 to 2001. The gross rent on these
leases total approximately $188,000 for fiscal 1998. The tenants
reimburse the Company for taxes, insurance, maintenance (other
than roof and structural repairs), etc. The Company purchased
this building for cash.

 The Company has no limitation on leverage and intends to use
leverage when available. As a practical matter, real estate with
short-term leases or non-rated tenants cannot generally be
leveraged.

 During fiscal 1994, the Company formed a wholly-owned
subsidiary, The Mobile Home Store, Inc., to finance and sell
manufactured homes. At March 31, 1998, loans receivable relating
to the financing of manufactured home sales amounted to
$1,824,064.

Management

 The management of the Company currently operates Monmouth
Real Estate Investment Corporation (MREIC) and United Mobile
Homes, Inc. (UMH), two real estate investment trusts (REITs). 
MREIC is now specializing in net leased industrial properties to
rated tenants on medium term leases. UMH specializes in
investments in manufactured home communities. It is intended that
the Company will invest in real estate ventures that do not qualify
under the investment objectives of MREIC and UMH. To the extent
that there may be conflicts of interest as to prospective
investments, the Company may be deprived of investment
opportunities.

General Risks of Real Estate Ownership

 The investments will be subject to the risks
generally associated with the ownership of real property,
including the uncertainty of cash flow to meet fixed obligations,
adverse changes in national economic conditions, changes in the
relative popularity (and thus the relative price) of the
 real estate investments when compared to other
investments, adverse local market conditions due to changes in
general or local economic conditions or neighborhood values,
changes in interest rates and in the availability of mortgage
funds, costs and terms of mortgage funds, the financial
conditions of tenants and sellers of properties, changes in real
estate tax rates and other operating expenses (including
corrections of potential environmental issues as well as more
stringent governmental regulations regarding the environment),
governmental rules and fiscal policies as well as expenses
resulting from acts of God, uninsured losses and other factors
which are beyond the control of the Company.

 -3-




Competition

 The Company will be competing for real estate investments
with numerous other real estate entities, such as individuals,
corporations, real estate investment trusts and other enterprises
engaged in real estate activities, possibly including certain
affiliates of the Company. In many cases, the competing concerns
may be larger and better financed than the Company, making it
difficult for the Company to secure new real estate investments.

Environmental, Regulatory and Energy Problems

 The Company must comply with certain Federal Environmental
Protection Agency Regulations as well as state and local
governmental regulations.

 In conjunction with the purchase of the Bethlehem building,
a Phase I environmental assessment was performed. This
assessment consisted of searches of Federal and State databases
to determine potential sources of contamination, investigation of
the site history, and visual inspection. The assessment
concluded that there was no evidence to suggest that the site has
ever experienced a significant spill or environmental incident.

 Additionally, inspections of properties are usually made and
certificates of compliance are usually obtained upon the sale of
property or upon a change of tenancy. Therefore, there is no
assurance that, in connection with compliance with environmental
regulations, substantial capital expenditure would not be
incurred at the time the Company desired to sell its properties
or at the time of a change of tenancy. Management is not aware
of any material environmental problems affecting the 
newly acquired property.

Number of Employees

 At March 31, 1998, the Company had seven full-time employees.
A Board of Directors consisting of ten directors is responsible
for the general policies of the Company. The Company utilizes
the services of a management company to manage its property.

YEAR 1999, CIK 5513, ______________________________

Item 1. Business
 
General
 
 The Company, a Delaware business corporation, is the parent holding company
for a group of insurance companies that collectively operate in all 50 states,
the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and Canada. The two principal
operating subsidiaries are Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company
("Accident") and The Paul Revere Life Insurance Company ("Paul Revere Life").
The Company, through its subsidiaries, is the largest provider of individual
disability insurance and the second largest overall disability insurer in
North America on the basis of in-force premiums. It also provides a
complementary portfolio of life insurance products, including life insurance,
employer- and employee-paid group benefits, and related services.
 
 2

 
 Since 1994, the Company has completed a comprehensive corporate
repositioning that has prepared it to support growth and increase stockholder
value. A new management team headed by J. Harold Chandler, who joined the
Company in November 1993, initiated a strategic review of the business. As a
result of its review, management refocused the strategy to serve
the individual and employee benefits insurance markets, (ii) leverage the
 disability insurance expertise, (iii) utilize multiple distribution
channels to reach broader market segments, and (iv) more closely align the
interests of the employees with those of its stockholders.
 
 The Company has successfully undertaken a number of major initiatives in
pursuing this strategy. Specifically, the Company sold its group medical
business for $231.0 million in cash and stock, (ii) began winding down its
guaranteed investment contracts ("GICs") business which carried high capital
requirements, (iii) reduced the annual dividend on the common stock from $0.52
to $0.40 per share on a split-adjusted basis to preserve capital to fund
future growth, (iv) simplified the corporate legal structure and eliminated a
dual class of common stock that had special voting rights in order to present
a more conventional corporate structure profile to the investing market, 
sold in six transactions $1,459.6 million in commercial mortgage loans as part
of repositioning its investment portfolio, (vi) restructured its marketing and
distribution channels, along with the support areas of product development,
underwriting, and claims, to better reach and serve individual and employee
benefits customers, (vii) strengthened its claims management procedures in the
disability income insurance business, on which the Company took a $423.0
million pre-tax charge in the third quarter of 1993 to strengthen reserves on
a portion of that block , and (viii) began restructuring its
disability income products to discontinue over a reasonable period the sale of
policies which combined noncancelable contracts with long-term own-occupation
provisions and to offer in their place an income replacement contract with
more reasonable limits and better pricing for elective provisions.
 
 In furtherance of its strategic plan, the Company acquired The Paul Revere
Corporation ("Paul Revere") and GENEX Services, Inc. ("GENEX") in early 1997
and disposed of certain non-core lines . These actions strengthen
the disability insurance capabilities and enable the Company to
offer a comprehensive and well-focused portfolio of products and services to
its customers. Paul Revere is a specialist in disability insurance, with
$1,030.0 million of disability premium income (91 percent of its total premium
income) in 1998. From 1989 through 1997 it was the largest provider of
individual disability insurance in the United States and Canada on the basis
of in-force premiums. By combining Paul operations with those of the
Company, the Company has begun to realize significant operating efficiencies,
including leveraging both companies' knowledge of disability risks,
specialized claims and underwriting skills, and sales expertise. The Company
also has realized cost savings as a result of combining the corporate,
administrative, and financial operations of the two companies.
 
 GENEX provides the Company with specialized skills in disability case
management and vocational rehabilitation that advance the goal of
providing products that enable disabled policyholders to return to work. GENEX
provides a full range of disability management services, including work site
injury management, telephonic early intervention services for injured workers,
medical case management, vocational rehabilitation, and disability cost
analysis, to third party administrators, corporate clients, and insurance
companies. It employs over 1,400 people, including 556 medical and vocational
rehabilitation experts, in 120 offices in the United States and Canada. In
addition to its historical focus on the compensation market, GENEX
and the Company are now working together to offer customized disability
programs for the employee benefits market that are intended to integrate and
simplify coverages, control costs, and improve efficiency for employers with
significant disability and related claims. The Company also expects GENEX to
play an increasingly significant role in helping the Company to manage its own
exposure to individual and group disability claims.
 
 As it continues to assess acquisition opportunities that could complement
its core business, the Company has also continued to assess and exit non-core
lines. In 1997, the Company transferred its dental business to Ameritas Life
Insurance Corp. The dental block, which was acquired in the Paul Revere
acquisition, produced $39.2 million in premium income in 1997 and $48.3
million in 1996.
 
 3

 
 Effective January 1, 1998, the Company entered into an agreement with
Connecticut General Life Insurance Company ("Connecticut General") for
Connecticut General to reinsure, on a 100% coinsurance basis, the 
in-force medical stop-loss insurance coverages sold to clients of CIGNA
Healthcare and its affiliates ("CIGNA"). This reinsured block constitutes
substantially all of the medical stop-loss insurance business. The
small portion remaining consists of medical stop-loss coverages sold to
clients other than those of CIGNA. These coverages will not be renewed.
 
 Effective April 30, 1998, the Company closed the sale of its individual and
tax-sheltered annuity business to American General Annuity Insurance Company
and The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company, affiliates of American
General Corporation ("American General"). The in-force business sold consisted
primarily of individual fixed annuities and tax-sheltered annuities in
Accident, Provident National Assurance Company ("National"), Paul Revere Life,
The Paul Revere Protective Life Insurance Company ("Paul Revere Protective"),
and The Paul Revere Variable Annuity Insurance Company ("Paul Revere
Variable"). American General also acquired a number of miscellaneous group
pension lines sold in the 1970s and 1980s which are no longer
actively marketed. Pursuant to an administrative services agreement, an
affiliate of American General is providing administrative services to
registered separate accounts of Paul Revere Variable and National. The sale
did not include the block of GICs or group single premium annuities
("SPAs"), which will continue in a run-off mode. In consideration for the
transfer of the approximately $2.4 billion of statutory reserves, American
General paid the Company a ceding commission of approximately $58.0 million.
 
 On July 15, 1997, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to
repurchase up to 1,000,000 shares (2,000,000 shares following a subsequent
stock split) of its common stock. In May 1998, the Company purchased 200,000
shares of common stock under this repurchase program for a total price of $7.7
million at an average price of $38.43 per share. The Company discontinued this
program in anticipation of the proposed merger with UNUM as discussed below.
 
 In the most recent accomplishment under its strategic plan, on November 23,
1998, the Company announced that it had entered into an Agreement and Plan of
Merger with UNUM pursuant to which the Company and UNUM would merge under the
name of UNUMProvident Corporation. UNUM, through it subsidiaries, is a leading
provider in the United States and the United Kingdom of group long-term and
short-term disability insurance policies and individual disability insurance
policies, as well as a major provider of other insurance products, including
life insurance offered through groups, long-term care policies, and employee-
paid insurance products offered to employees at their work site.
 
 Under the terms of the Agreement, Company stockholders will receive 0.73 of
a share of UNUMProvident common stock for each share of the stock
that they hold. UNUM stockholders will receive one share of UNUMProvident
common stock for each share of UNUM common stock they hold. The merger is
subject to approval or clearance by certain federal and state regulators,
approval by stockholders of both companies, and customary closing conditions.
The transaction is expected to be completed by mid-1999.
 
Business Strategies
 
 The objective is to grow its business and improve its
profitability by continuing to follow the strategies set forth below.
 
 Serve the Individual and Employee Benefits Markets. The Company believes
that the broad individual and employee benefits insurance markets are
attractive for a company with its specialty focus on disability insurance.
First, the Company believes disability insurers have not traditionally served
the broad potential demand for protection against loss of income due
to disability, as evidenced by the size. As of December 31, 1998,
the total in-force premium from disability products is approximately $9
billion, compared to $197 billion for annuities and $115 billion for life
insurance. The Company believes that if it is responsive to the needs of its
markets, there is opportunity for growth in the disability industry.
 
 4

 
 Second, individual disability insurance has traditionally been sold
primarily in the medical and physician markets, where market penetration has
been significant. The Company believes that expanding its marketing to other
market segments offers greater opportunities for growth. The penetration of
the attorney, executive, and professional markets, for example, is far less
than that of the medical and physician markets. The market of middle managers
and front-line workers has not been significantly developed by individual
disability insurers. Each of these markets is significantly larger than the
medical and physician market. The strategy is to design products and
services that meet the needs of these underpenetrated market segments,
offering them both individual disability insurance and related life insurance,
as well as other products.
 
 Third, the Company believes that the markets for group disability insurance
are also underpenetrated. The Company is focused on creating customized
solutions for employee benefits customers that include group disability
insurance and related employee- and employer-paid benefits as well as
disability management services. The employee benefits market is undergoing a
change as employers seek to simplify coverages, control costs, and improve
efficiency. The Company has positioned itself to package its products and
services to meet this growing demand for managed disability programs and 24-
hour coverage.
 
 The Company encourages its sales representatives and producers to respond to
the needs of customers by cross-selling complementary products to each
account. In the past several years, for example, the Company has made ease of
meeting customers' needs the priority for its information systems investments.
The Company now offers combined proposals that include pre-approved life
insurance with individual disability policies and bill a range of voluntary
product offerings through a single payroll deduction entry on an 
paycheck. The Company also has employee and producer compensation plans that
reward the sale of several of the products rather than single
product sales, including grants of stock options to selected producers and a
multi-line producer compensation plan designed to leverage a 
production and overall compensation.
 
 Leverage Disability Insurance Expertise and Risk Management Skills. In
serving its markets, the Company leads with its disability insurance
expertise. The Company is the largest provider of individual disability
insurance with $1.4 billion of premium income in 1998, and the second largest
overall disability insurer in North America, on the basis of in-force
premiums, with an additional $354.1 million of group disability insurance
premium income in 1998. The skills required for disability risk management are
more highly specialized than those used in managing the risk of other life
insurance products. The Company believes that its risk management skills
represent a competitive advantage in the disability businesses. The Company
has made a number of recent improvements to its capabilities. In the claims
management area, for example, the Company has shifted from a geographic
distribution of workflow to an organization focused on impairments
(psychiatric, orthopedic, cardiac, and general medical) in order to provide
claimants with more specialized attention. The addition of case
management and vocational rehabilitation expertise has enabled the Company to
further refine its efforts to assist disabled claimants to return to gainful
employment.
 
 Utilize Multiple Distribution Channels to Reach Different Market
Segments. The experience is that different distribution channels
reach different market segments. Therefore, its strategy is to distribute its
products through a number of channels in order to reach the broad individual
and employee benefits markets. The Company distributes its individual products
primarily through independent insurance brokers and agents, financial
planners, and corporate marketing agreements with other insurance companies.
It distributes employee benefits products primarily through brokers, benefits
consultants, and a direct sales force that calls on large corporations. All
products and distribution channels are supported through a network of 70
integrated sales and service offices in the United States, nine offices in
Canada, and non-field sales organizations located in Chattanooga, Tennessee,
Worcester, Massachusetts and Burlington, Ontario.
 
 The Company believes there are substantial opportunities to increase sales
by improving the productivity of each of these distribution channels and
opening new distribution channels for its products. For example, the national
accounts distribution system, which involves the sales of the 
products by agents of other insurance companies, generates sales from a small
percentage of the agents of the national account companies. A major focus for
1998 was increasing the penetration of these national account relationships.
 
 5

 
 Align the Interests of the Employees and Producers with those of
its Stockholders. The strategic plan is supported by the goal of
raising employee stock ownership in the Company. Beginning in 1994, the
Company shifted its long-term cash compensation program for executives to a
stock-based plan, introduced ownership requirements of several times salary
for executive management, and instituted stock option and share grant plans
for executive and middle management. The Company continued to introduce new
programs to encourage ownership in 1995, establishing an employee stock
purchase plan open to all employees, introducing stock-based incentive awards,
and expanding the option program to field sales employees. Most recently, the
Company has created a stock-based plan for executives' short-term compensation
and has expanded its option plans to producers who meet certain sales and
profitability goals. These programs are intended to more closely align the
interests of employees, producers, and stockholders.
 
 Prior to the implementation of these programs in 1994, there was little
employee ownership of common stock. The Company had 1,128,434 outstanding
options for shares of common stock on a split-adjusted basis as of December
31, 1993. As of December 31, 1998, employees owned more than 1.1 million
shares of common stock through the employee stock purchase and 401 plans,
and the Company had 6,737,932 outstanding options for shares of common stock.
Approximately 50 percent of the employees participate in one or more
of these stock ownership programs.
 
Reporting Segments
 
 The Company is organized around its customers, with reporting segments that
reflect its major market segments: Individual, Employee Benefits, and
Voluntary Benefits. The Other segment includes products that the Company no
longer actively markets. The Corporate segment includes revenue earned on
corporate assets, interest expense on corporate debt, and amortization of
goodwill. The Individual reporting segment includes individual
disability insurance and individual life insurance. The Employee Benefits
segment includes group long- and short-term disability insurance, group life
insurance, accidental death and dismemberment coverages, and the results of
GENEX. The Voluntary Benefits segment includes employer-sponsored individual
products sold at the work site through payroll deduction. The Other segment
includes the results from GICs, group SPAs, corporate-owned life insurance
("COLI"), individual annuities, medical and dental, and medical stop-loss.
 
 Individual. Individual disability comprises the majority of the segment,
with $1,392.0 million of premium income in 1998 and $1,207.7 million of
premium income in 1997. Individual life insurance products generated $82.4
million of premium income in 1998 and $78.9 million of premium income in 1997.
 
 Individual disability income insurance provides the insured with a portion
of earned income lost as a result of sickness or injury. Under an individual
disability income policy, monthly benefits generally are fixed at the time the
policy is written. The benefits typically range from 30 percent to 75 percent
of the monthly earned income. Various options with respect to length
of benefit periods and waiting periods before payment begins are available and
permit tailoring of the policy to a specific needs. The Company
also markets individual disability income policies which include payments for
transfer ownership and business overhead expenses. Individual
disability income products do not provide for the accumulation of cash values.
 
 Premium rates for these products are varied by age, sex, and occupation
based on assumptions concerning morbidity, persistency, policy related
expenses, and investment income. The Company develops its assumptions based on
its own claims experience and published industry tables. The 
underwriters evaluate the medical and financial condition of prospective
policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy.
 
 The majority of the in-force individual disability income
insurance was written on a noncancelable basis. Under a noncancelable policy,
as long as the insured continues to pay the fixed annual premium for the
 duration, the policy cannot be canceled by the Company nor can the
premium be raised. Due to the noncancelable, fixed premium nature of the
policies marketed in the past, profitability of this part of
 
 6

 
the business of Accident and Provident Life and Casualty Insurance Company
("Casualty") is largely dependent upon achieving the morbidity and interest
rate assumptions set in the 1993 loss recognition study with respect to the
business written in 1993 and prior and those set in the pricing 
written after 1993. The profitability of the Paul Revere business will be
largely dependent achieving the assumptions as to morbidity, persistency,
interest earned rates, and expense levels assumed when pricing the
acquisition. See " Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" on pages 20 to 22.
 
 In November 1994, the Company announced its intention to discontinue the
sale of individual disability products which combined lifetime benefits and
short elimination periods with own-occupation provisions (other than
conversion policies available under existing contractual arrangements). At the
same time the Company began introducing products that insured loss of earnings
as opposed to occupations, and these products generally contained more limited
benefit periods and longer elimination periods. Since the acquisition of Paul
Revere in March 1997, the Company has discontinued the sale of certain Paul
Revere products that are not consistent with the strategic direction
for its product portfolio. The Company expects to continue to offer on a
limited basis selected Paul Revere products with own-occupation (while not
working) features applying stricter underwriting standards. The Company is in
the process of repricing these selected products and making modifications to
their features where appropriate. Going forward, the Company expects to offer
a limited portfolio of own-occupation based coverages along with its more
complete line of loss of earnings related disability coverages.
 
 In contrast to traditional noncancelable own-occupation policies, for which
benefits are determined based on whether the insured can work in his or her
original occupation, the loss of earnings policy requires the policyholder to
satisfy two conditions for benefits to begin: reduced ability to work due to
accident or sickness and earnings loss of at least 20 percent. These policies
are aimed at repositioning the individual disability income product by making
it more attractive to a broader market of individual consumers, including
middle to upper income individuals and corporate benefit buyers.
 
 The life insurance offerings include term, universal life, and
interest-sensitive life insurance products. Universal life products provide
permanent life insurance with adjustable interest rates applied to the cash
value and are designed to achieve specific policyholder objectives such as
higher accumulation values and/or flexibility with respect to amount of
coverage and premium payments. The principal difference between fixed premium
and universal life insurance policies centers around policy provisions
affecting the amount and timing of premium payments. Under universal life
policies, policyholders may vary the frequency and size of their premium
payments, and policy benefits may fluctuate accordingly. Premium payments
under the fixed premium policies are not variable by the policyholder and, as
a result, generally reflect lower administrative costs than universal life
products for which extensive monitoring of premium payments and policy
benefits is required.
 
 The largest number of ordinary life policies sold in 1997 and 1998 were ten-
year level term policies. These products have level premiums for an initial
ten-year period after which the policyholder may resubmit to the underwriting
process and possibly qualify for a new ten year period at the attained age
premiums; otherwise, premiums revert to a yearly renewable term premium which
increases annually. When measured by annualized premiums, universal life with
the flexibility and features described above was the largest product category
sold by the Company in this segment in recent years. Paul largest
product category is interest-sensitive whole life insurance.
 
 Premium rates for the life insurance products are based on
assumptions as to future mortality, investment yields, expenses, and lapses.
Although a margin for profit is included in setting premium rates, the actual
profitability of products is significantly affected by the variation of actual
experience from assumed experience. Profitability of fixed premium products is
also dependent upon investment income on reserves. The profitability of
interest-sensitive products is determined primarily by the ultimate
underwriting experience and the ability to maintain anticipated investment
spreads. The Company believes that the historical claims experience for these
products has been satisfactory.
 
 7

 
 From the viewpoint, the risks involved with interest-sensitive
products include actual versus assumed mortality, achieving investment returns
that at least equal the current declared rate, competitive position of
declared rates on the policies, meeting the contractually guaranteed minimum
crediting rate, and recovery of policy acquisition costs. From the
 perspective, the risk involved with interest-sensitive products
is whether or not the declared rates on the policy will compare favorably with
the returns available elsewhere in the marketplace.
 
 Employee Benefits. The Employee Benefits segment includes the results of
group products sold to employers for the benefit of employees and the results
of GENEX. Product offerings include disability, permanent and term life
insurance, and accidental death and dismemberment. Group disability comprises
the majority of the segment, with $354.1 million of premium income in 1998.
Group life generated $317.6 million of premium income in 1998. See
" Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" on pages 22 to 23.
 
 Group long-term disability insurance provides employees with insurance
coverage for loss of income in the event of extended work absences due to
sickness or injury. Services are offered to employers and insureds to
encourage and facilitate rehabilitation, retraining, and re-employment.
Premiums for this product are generally based on expected claims of a pool of
similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses and profit. Some
cases, however, carry experience rating provisions. Premiums for experience
rated group disability business are based on the expected experience of the
client given their industry group, adjusted for the credibility of the
specific claim experience of the client. A few accounts are handled on an
administrative services only basis with responsibility for funding claim
payments remaining with the customer.
 
 Profitability of group disability insurance is affected by deviations of
actual claims experience from expected claims experience and the ability of
the Company to control its administrative expenses. Morbidity is an important
factor in disability claims experience. Also important is the general state of
the economy; for example, during a recession the incidence of claims tends to
increase under this type of insurance. In general, experience rated disability
coverage for large groups has narrower profit margins and represents less risk
to the Company than business of this type sold to small employers. This is
because the Company must bear all of the risk of adverse claims experience in
small case coverages while larger employers often bear much of this risk
themselves. For disability coverages, case management and rehabilitation
activities with regard to claims, along with appropriate pricing and expense
control, are important factors contributing to profitability.
 
 Group life insurance consists primarily of renewable term life insurance
with the coverages frequently linked to employees' wages. Profitability in
group life is affected by deviations of actual claims experience from expected
claims experience and the ability of the Company to control administrative
expenses. The Company also markets several group benefits products and
services including accident and sickness indemnity and accidental death and
dismemberment policies.
 
 Voluntary Benefits. The Voluntary Benefits segment includes the results of
individual products sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction at
the work site ("voluntary benefits products"). The premium income in
1998 totaled $84.2 million and consisted primarily of universal life and
interest-sensitive life products as well as health products, principally
intermediate disability income policies. Profitability of voluntary benefits
products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency,
deviations of actual morbidity and mortality experience from expected
experience, and the ability of the Company to control administrative expenses.
See " Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations" on page 24.
 
 Other. The Other segment includes the results of GICs, group SPAs, COLI,
individual annuities, medical and dental, and medical stop-loss. See
" Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" on pages 25 to 26.
 
 Under GICs, the Company guarantees the principal and interest to the
contract holder for a specified period, generally three to five years. The
Company marketed GICs for use in corporate tax-qualified retirement plans
 
 8

 
and derives profits from GICs on the spread between the amount of interest
earned on invested funds and the fixed rate guaranteed in the GIC. In December
1994, the Company discontinued the sale of GICs, but continues to service its
block of existing business. See "Reserves." Group SPAs are used as funding
vehicles primarily when defined benefit pension plans are terminated. The
Company also offers annuities as an employer-sponsored option for retirees
receiving their distributions from 401 plans. Pursuant to a group SPA
contract, the Company receives a one-time premium payment and in turn agrees
to pay a fixed monthly retirement benefit to specified employees. Sales of
group SPAs were discontinued in 1996. GICs accounted for $656.8 million and
group SPAs accounted for $1,185.6 million of accumulated funds under
management at December 31, 1998.
 
 The Company believes that there are three primary sources of risk associated
with GICs and group SPAs. Underwriting risk represents the risk that a GIC has
been priced properly to reflect the risk of withdrawal and for group SPAs,
that the mortality rates and the ages and frequency at which annuitants will
retire have been accurately projected. Asset/liability risk represents the
risk that the investments purchased to back the products will adequately match
the future cash flows. Investment risk represents the risk that the underlying
investments backing the GICs and group SPAs will perform according to the
expectations of the Company at the time of purchase.
 
 COLI is a tax-leveraged policy sold from 1983 to 1990, with most of the
block having been sold before June 21, 1986. Beginning in 1986, Congress began
to enact tax legislation that significantly reduced the ability of
policyholders to deduct policy loan interest on these products which detracted
from the internal rate of return which theretofore had been available. In
1988, Congress went further by enacting legislation that had adverse tax
consequences for distributions/policy loans from modified endowment contracts.
Under this legislation, new sales of the majority of the COLI
products would have been subject to adverse tax treatment as modified
endowment contracts due to their high premium level. As a consequence, many of
these products were withdrawn, and revised products which would not be
considered modified endowment contracts were introduced. Policies issued prior
to June 21, 1986, however, were grandfathered from the modified endowment
provisions. In 1996, Congress enacted tax legislation which generally
eliminates tax deductions for policy loan interest on COLI products issued on
or after June 21, 1986.
 
 Medical stop-loss insurance is provided to protect the insured against
significant adverse claims experience with respect to group medical coverage.
As commented on previously, the Company entered into an agreement in 1998 to
reinsure this block .
 
 As previously discussed, during 1998 the Company sold its in-force
individual and tax-sheltered annuity business.
 
 Corporate Segment. The Corporate segment consists of revenue earned on
corporate assets, interest expense on corporate debt, amortization of
goodwill, and certain corporate expenses not allocated to a line .
 
Reinsurance
 
 The Company routinely reinsures portions of its business with other
insurance companies. In a reinsurance transaction a reinsurer agrees to
indemnify another insurer for part or all of its liability under a policy or
policies it has issued for an agreed upon premium. The maximum amount of risk
retained by the Company and not reinsured is $500,000 on any individual life
insured and $500,000 on individual accidental death insurance. The amount of
risk retained by the Company on individual disability income products varies
by policy type and year of issue. Since the ceding of reinsurance by the
Company does not discharge its primary liability to the policyholder, the
Company has control procedures with regard to reinsurance ceded. These
procedures include the exchange and review of financial statements filed with
regulatory authorities, exchange of Insurance Regulatory Information System
results, review of ratings by A.M. Best Company, determination of states in
which the reinsurer is licensed to do business, on-site visits before entering
a contract to assess the operations and management of the reinsurer,
consideration of the need for collateral, such as letters of credit, and
audits of the reinsurance activities by its Internal Audit staff.
The Company also assumes reinsurance from other insurers. See "Note 12 to the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion.
 
 9

 
Reserves
 
 The applicable insurance laws under which insurance companies operate
require that they report, as liabilities, policy reserves to meet future
obligations on their outstanding policies. These reserves are the amounts
which, with the additional premiums to be received and interest thereon
compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are calculated to be sufficient
to meet the various policy and contract obligations as they mature. These laws
specify that the reserves shall not be less than reserves calculated using
certain specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates, and methods
of valuation. The reserves reported in the financial statements
incorporated herein by reference are calculated based on generally accepted
accounting principles ("GAAP") and differ from those specified by the laws of
the various states and carried in the statutory financial statements of the
life insurance subsidiaries. These differences arise from the use of mortality
and morbidity tables and interest assumptions which are believed to be more
representative of the actual business than those required for statutory
accounting purposes and from differences in actuarial reserving methods.
 
 The consolidated statements of income include the annual change in reserves
for future policy and contract benefits. The change reflects a normal
accretion for premium payments and interest buildup and decreases for policy
terminations such as lapses, deaths, and annuity benefit payments.
 
 In addition to reserves for future policy and contract benefits, the Company
maintains a balance sheet liability for policyholders' funds. Policyholders'
funds, as shown on the consolidated statements of financial
condition as of December 31, 1998, were $3,127.3 million. Of this amount,
$656.8 million reflected the outstanding GICs, the maturity of which
is as follows (in millions):
 

 
 1 year or less$464.7
 Over 1 year but less than 2 years 156.5
 Over 2 years but less than 3 years 26.5
 Over 3 years 9.1
 Total$656.8
 
 
 In the third quarter of 1996, Paul Revere recorded a reserve strengthening
of $380.0 million before income taxes. The reserve strengthening recorded was
prompted by the results of a comprehensive study of the adequacy of its
individual disability reserves under GAAP completed in October 1996. In
connection with such reserve study, Paul Revere received an actuarial report
from an independent actuarial firm, which report concluded that the net
individual disability reserves of $2.2 billion reported by Paul Revere at
September 30, 1996, which reflected the $380.0 million reserve strengthening
adjustment, were adequate on a GAAP basis, based on the assumptions reflected
therein.
 
 Subsequently, Paul Revere completed, in cooperation with the Division of
Insurance of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the "Massachusetts Division of
Insurance"), a comprehensive study of the adequacy of its statutory individual
disability reserves, as a result of which Paul statutory reserves
were increased by $144.0 million before income taxes. Pursuant to an agreement
with the Company, dated as of April 29, 1996, Textron Inc. ("Textron"), then
the largest shareholder of Paul Revere, contributed to Paul Revere $121.0
million, representing the amount of required statutory reserve increases, net
of tax benefits.
 
 Regarding the proposed merger with UNUM, the Company and UNUM have
reviewed the anticipated disability claims experience, specifically the
assumptions around expected disability claims duration on existing claims,
considering the impact of the merger. The Company and UNUM anticipate that as
a result of integrating their respective claim operations, there will be a
temporary increase in claim costs. Each company expects that fewer claims will
be resolved or closed during the period when the two companies are planning
and implementing the integration of their claims organizations. The average
length of duration for claims will increase resulting in more benefit payments
being paid for a relatively short time until the consolidation of operations
is complete. During the fourth quarter 1998, the Company and UNUM increased
their claim reserves by approximately $93.6 million ($60.8 million after tax)
and $59.4 million ($38.6 million after tax), respectively,
 
 10

 
related to the expected increase in disability claim duration on existing
claims. Additionally, the Company and UNUM are in the process of reviewing
their accounting policies and financial statement classifications. One aspect
of this preliminary review has indicated that process and assumptions
used to calculate the discount rate for claim reserves of certain disability
businesses differs from that used by the Company. It has been determined that
the process and assumptions are more appropriate in the context of a
combined entity. Upon completion of the merger, UNUM will reduce the rates
used to discount claim reserves for group long-term disability, individual
disability, and the disability businesses of UNUM Limited a UNUM subsidiary in
the UK. The preliminary estimates of discount rate reductions will result in
an estimated increase to claim reserves upon consummation of the merger
of approximately $230.0 million ($150.0 million after tax).
 
 See "Risk Factors--Reserves".
 
Competition
 
 There is intense competition among insurance companies for the individual
and group insurance products of the types sold by the Company. At the end of
1998, there were over 2,000 legal reserve life insurance companies in the
United States, many offering one or more insurance products similar to those
marketed by the Company. The principal competitors in the employee
benefits market include the largest insurance companies in the United States,
many of which have substantially greater financial resources and larger staffs
than the Company. In addition, in the individual life market, the Company
competes with banks, investment advisers, mutual funds, and other financial
entities for investment of savings and retirement funds in general. In the
individual and group disability markets, the Company competes in the United
States and Canada with a limited number of major companies and regionally with
other companies offering specialty products.
 
 All areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the
yearly renewable term nature of the products and the large number of insurance
companies offering products in this market. The Company competes with other
companies in attracting and retaining independent agents and brokers to
actively market its products. The principal competitive factors affecting the
Company are price and quality of service.
 
Regulation
 
 The Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to detailed
regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which each does business.
With respect to the insurance subsidiaries, such regulation and supervision is
primarily for the protection of policyholders rather than for the benefit of
investors or creditors. Although the extent of such regulation varies, state
insurance laws generally establish supervisory agencies with broad
administrative powers.
 
 These supervisory and administrative powers relate chiefly to the granting
and revocation of the licenses to transact business, the licensing of agents,
the approval of policy forms, reserve requirements, and the form and XXof required financial statements. As to the type and amounts of its
investments, the insurance subsidiaries must meet the standards and
tests promulgated by the insurance laws and regulations of Tennessee,
Massachusetts, New York, Delaware, and certain other states in which they
conduct business.
 
 The Company and its insurance subsidiaries are required to file various,
usually quarterly and/or annual, financial statements and are subject to
periodic and intermittent review with respect to their financial condition and
other matters by the various departments having jurisdiction in the states in
which they do business. The last such examination of Accident, Casualty and
National was completed on April 30, 1997, and covered operations for the five-
year period ending December 31, 1995. The final report was issued in the
second quarter of 1997, and no objections were raised by the reviewing
authorities as a result of that examination. The field work related to the
last financial examination of Paul Revere Life and Paul Revere Variable was
completed on March 27, 1997, and covered the operations for the four-year
period ending December 31, 1994. As a result of the examination, statutory
reserves were increased by $35.0 million, which adjustment was reflected in
the statutory
 
 11

 
financial statements of Paul Revere Life as of December 31, 1995. The scope of
the examination was extended to include a review of the individual disability
income reserves as of September 30, 1996. As a result of that review, which
was completed on February 5, 1997, Paul Revere Life was required to increase
its statutory reserves by $144.0 million on a pre-tax basis or $121.0 million
on an after-tax basis. As a result of the reserve strengthening required, the
former parent of Paul Revere Life made additional capital contributions
totaling $121.0 million: $83.5 million was contributed in December 1996, and
the balance of $37.5 million was contributed on February 5, 1997. The
financial examination of Paul Revere Protective for the three-year period
ending December 31, 1996 has been completed, and the Company received the
final report in the first quarter of 1999. No objections were raised by the
reviewing authorities.
 
 The laws of the states of Tennessee, Massachusetts, New York, and Delaware
require the registration of and periodic reporting by insurance companies
domiciled within their jurisdiction which control or are controlled by other
corporations or persons so as to constitute a holding company system. The
Company is registered as a holding company system in Tennessee, Massachusetts,
New York, and Delaware. The holding company statutes require periodic
disclosure concerning stock ownership and prior approval of certain
intercompany transactions within the holding company system. The Company may
from time to time be subject to regulation under the insurance and insurance
holding company statutes of one or more additional states. See "
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on
page 28.
 
 The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") and insurance
regulators are re-examining existing laws and regulations and their
application to insurance companies. In particular, this re-examination has
focused on insurance company investment and solvency issues and, in some
instances, has resulted in new interpretations of existing law, the
development of new laws, and the implementation of non-statutory guidelines.
The NAIC has formed committees and appointed advisory groups to study and
formulate regulatory proposals on such diverse issues as the use of surplus
notes, accounting for reinsurance transactions, and the adoption of risk-based
capital rules. In 1998, the NAIC approved a codification of statutory
accounting practices effective January 1, 2001, which will serve as a
comprehensive and standardized guide to statutory accounting principles.
Following implementation, statutory accounting principles will continue to be
governed by individual state laws and permitted practices until adoption by
the various states. Accordingly, before codification becomes effective for
each of the insurance subsidiaries, their state of domicile must
adopt codification as the prescribed basis of accounting. The adoption of the
codification will change, to some extent, the accounting practices that the
 insurance subsidiaries use to prepare their statutory financial
statements.
 
Risk Factors
 
 Any one or more of the following factors may cause the actual
results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from
those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the
Company. See also " Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" on page 28.
 
Reserves
 
 The Company maintains reserves for future policy benefits and unpaid claims
expenses which include policy reserves and claim reserves established for its
individual disability insurance, group insurance, and individual life
insurance products. Policy reserves represent the portion of premiums received
which are reserved to provide for future claims. Claim reserves are
established for future payments not yet due on claims already incurred,
primarily relating to individual disability and group disability insurance
products. Reserves, whether calculated under GAAP or statutory accounting
practices, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities
but are instead estimates made by the Company using actuarial and statistical
procedures. There can be no assurance that any such reserves would be
sufficient to fund future liabilities of the Company in all circumstances.
Future loss development could require reserves to be increased, which would
adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. Adjustments to
reserve amounts may be required in the event of changes
 
 12

 
from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and
the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other
societal and economic factors), persistency, mortality, and interest rates
used in calculating the reserve amounts.
 
Capital Adequacy
 
 The capacity for an insurance growth in premiums is in part a
function of its statutory surplus. Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory
surplus, as measured by state insurance regulators, is considered important by
state insurance regulatory authorities and the private agencies that rate
insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. Failure to maintain
certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory
scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the
private rating agencies.
 
 Effective in 1993, the NAIC adopted a risk-based capital ("RBC") formula,
which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and
surplus for all life and health insurers. The basis of the system is a risk-
based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in
a life and health insurer to report a minimum capital requirement
proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. The life and health
RBC formula is designed to measure annually the risk of loss from asset
defaults and asset value fluctuation, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse
mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of
asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv)
business risks. The formula is to be used as an early warning tool to identify
companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. The formula is
intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means
to rank insurers generally.
 
 Based on computations made by the Company in accordance with the prescribed
life and health RBC formula, each of the life insurance subsidiaries
exceeded the minimum capital requirements at December 31, 1998.
 
Disability Insurance
 
 Disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic,
governmental, competitive, and other factors. Changes in societal attitudes,
work ethics, motivation, stability, and mores can significantly affect the
demand for and underwriting results from disability products. Economic
conditions affect not only the market for disability products, but also
significantly affect the claims rates and length of claims. The climate and
the nature of competition in disability insurance have also been markedly
affected by the growth of Social Security, compensation, and other
governmental programs in the workplace. The nature of that portion of the
 outstanding insurance business that consists of noncancelable
disability policies, whereby the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through
the life of the policy at a fixed premium, does not permit the Company to
adjust its premiums on business in-force on account of changes resulting from
such factors. Disability insurance products are important products for the
Company. To the extent that disability products are adversely affected in the
future as to sales or claims, the business or results of operations of the
Company could be materially adversely affected.
 
Industry Factors
 
 All of the Companyes are highly regulated and competitive. The
 profitability is affected by a number of factors, including rate
competition, frequency and severity of claims, lapse rates, government
regulation, interest rates, and general business considerations. There are
many insurance companies which actively compete with the Company in its lines
, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources
than the Company, and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to
compete effectively against such companies in the future.
 
 In recent years, some U.S. life insurance companies have faced claims,
including class-action lawsuits, alleging various improper sales practices in
the sales of certain types of life insurance products. These claims often
relate to the selling of whole life and universal life policies that
accumulate cash values which may be utilized to fund the cost of the insurance
in later years of the policy. Due to subsequent reductions in dividends
 
 13

 
or interest credited or due to other factors, the cash values have not
accumulated sufficiently to cover costs of insurance, resulting in the need
for ongoing premium payments. Although never a principal product line for the
Company or Paul Revere, both companies have sold a modest amount of interest-
sensitive whole life and universal life policies. There can be no assurance
that any future claims relating to sales of such policies will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company.
 
Merger with UNUM
 
 The market value of UNUMProvident common stock issued in the merger will
depend upon the market value of the common stock and UNUM common
stock at the completion of the merger. As a result of the reclassification and
the merger, each share of the common stock will be reclassified and
converted into 0.73 of a share of UNUMProvident common stock. Because the
exchange ratio of 0.73 is fixed, the market value of UNUMProvident common
stock issued in the merger will depend upon the market prices of UNUM common
stock and the common stock. These market values may fluctuate prior
to the completion of the merger and therefore may be different at the time the
merger is completed than they were at the time the merger agreement was signed
and the exchange ratio agreed upon and at the time of stockholder approval.
Accordingly, the stockholders and stockholders cannot be sure
of the market value of the UNUMProvident common stock that they will receive
in the merger.
 
 The Company may fail to realize benefits anticipated by the parties. The
Company and UNUM expect significant benefits to result from the merger.
However, the merger involves the integration of two large companies that have
previously operated independently of each other, and the successful
combination of the two business enterprises may result in a diversion of
management attention for an extended period of time. In addition, such
integration is likely to lengthen the average disability claims duration for a
relatively short period of time following the completion of the merger. See
the preceding discussion in the "Reserves" section for the anticipated effect
on productivity and corresponding increase in claim reserves.
Further, the parties may not be able to achieve the anticipated enhanced
cross-selling opportunities, the development and marketing of more
comprehensive insurance product offerings, cost savings, revenue growth and
consistent use of best practices. Inability to realize the full extent of, or
any of, the anticipated benefits of the merger as well as delays encountered
in the transition process could have a material adverse effect upon the
revenues, level of expenses, operating results, and financial condition of
UNUMProvident. Accordingly, UNUMProvident may not realize the full extent of,
or any of, the anticipated benefits of the merger, and this failure may affect
the value of the UNUMProvident common stock.
 
 The merger is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from
government entities that may impose conditions that could have a material
adverse effect on UNUMProvident or cause abandonment of the merger. Completion
of the merger is conditioned upon the expiration or termination of the
applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act and the receipt of
consents, orders, approvals, and clearances from state and foreign
governmental entities. The terms and conditions of such consents, orders,
approvals, and clearances may require the divestiture of divisions, operations
or assets of UNUMProvident, may affect the license of an insurance subsidiary
of the Company or UNUM, or may impose other conditions which adversely affect
the ongoing operations of UNUMProvident. Such required divestitures or other
conditions, if any, may have a material adverse effect on the business,
financial condition, or results of operations of UNUMProvident or may cause
the abandonment of the merger by the Company or UNUM. The Company and UNUM
have not determined how they will respond to conditions, limitations, or
divestitures which may be required in connection with obtaining any consents,
orders, approvals, and clearances.
 
Selected Data Of Segments
 
 Information regarding the operations of segments may be found under XX " Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" on pages 18 to 27.
 
Employees
 
 At March 1, 1999, the Company had 3,725 full-time employees (excluding
GENEX), including 2,173 at its headquarters in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and
GENEX had 1,363 full time employees, including 172 in its home office in
Wayne, Pennsylvania.
 
 14

 
YEAR 1998, CIK 814856, ______________________________

Item 1. Business.
 
General

 BF Enterprises, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively the "Company")
currently is engaged primarily in the real estate business, including the
development of a large tract of land, known as Meadow Pointe, in suburban Tampa,
Florida, and, as owner and landlord, leasing a 220,000 square foot building on
16 acres in Tempe, Arizona. In addition, the Company owns approximately 21
acres of undeveloped land in suburban Nashville, Tennessee.

 At December 31, 1997, the assets also included approximately
$4.3 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, which the
Company intends to use for general corporate purposes, including development of
the Meadow Pointe project and payment of principal and interest on subordinated
debentures and other obligations.


Real Estate

 The principal real estate assets consist of the following:

 Meadow Pointe. As of February 28, 1998, the Company owned
approximately 497 acres in a master planned unit development, encompassing
approximately 1,724 acres, known as Meadow Pointe, in Pasco County, Florida.
Since 1992, the Company has sold 1,470 lots, consisting of approximately 310
acres, to six homebuilders and 834 acres to the two community development
districts described below. The Company also donated 79 acres to Pasco County,
primarily for parks and a school site, sold an acre to a local utility and, in
1997, sold a two-acre church site and a one-acre day care site. Meadow Pointe
is located about 20 miles northeast of downtown Tampa, on County Road 581.

 The Company commenced development of Meadow Pointe in 1992. Meadow
Pointe is being developed in accordance with a Development Order issued by the
Pasco County Board of County Commissioners, and is currently zoned for
approximately 2,750 single family homes, 1,500 multifamily residential units
and 61.5 acres of commercial facilities.

 Infrastructure construction at Meadow Pointe began in late February
1992, and the initial sales of residential lots to homebuilders closed in June
1992. The Company sold 297 lots in 1997, 269 lots in 1996, 211 lots in 1995,
284 lots in 1994, 267 lots in 1993 and 99 lots during the last seven months of
1992, and sold 43 lots in the first two months of 1998, for prices ranging from
approximately $21,000 to $45,000. The homebuilders currently are offering
finished houses at base prices ranging from approximately $90,000 to $250,000.

 The Company is engaged in the development of residential lots and
multifamily and commercial parcels for sale to homebuilders and others. The
Company does not expect that it or any subsidiary or affiliate will engage in
the construction of houses on finished lots. In March 1991, the Company entered
into a Development and Management Agreement (the "Development Agreement") with
Devco II Corporation ("Devco"), a Florida corporation whose principals are
experienced Tampa-area real estate developers. Under the Development Agreement,
Devco is responsible for planning and managing, and advising the Company with


 1


respect to, the development of Meadow Pointe, including the sale of single
family lots and multifamily and commercial parcels.
 
 Two community development districts, both local units of Florida
special purpose government, have been formed in conjunction with the development
of Meadow Pointe. These districts, whose jurisdiction is limited to the Meadow
Pointe project, together encompass all of the 1,724 acres within the project.
During the period February 1992 through March 1997, the two community
development districts issued an aggregate $60.7 million of capital improvement
revenue bonds. All of these bonds were issued to finance the acquisition of
property, and the construction of roads, utilities, recreation facilities and
other infrastructure systems. In February 1998, the Company received a
bank commitment providing for a $2 million revolving credit facility which may 
be used to finance such improvements in certain parcels within one of the
districts. These infrastructure improvements are essential to the development
of finished lots by the Company and the sale of those lots to homebuilders.

 The Company currently anticipates that $10 million of additional
capital will be required to finance the acquisition of property and the
construction of roads, utilities and other infrastructure systems within the
project. There can be no assurance that this additional capital will be
available, either from the issuance of capital improvement revenue bonds or
other financing sources.

 In the first quarter of 1997, the Company listed for sale with a large
national real estate brokerage firm approximately 55 acres of commercial
property. There were no offers received on terms acceptable to the Company, for
all or any part of the property listed. The listing expired on February 1998
and was not extended. The Company and Devco have assumed marketing
responsibility for the commercial property.
 
 Commercial Building in Tempe. The Company owns a 220,000 square foot
commercial building, with approximately 900 parking spaces, on 16 acres in the
Hohokam Industrial Park in Tempe, Arizona, which is currently subject to a
10-year triple net lease to Bank One, Arizona, NA, a subsidiary of Banc One
Corporation. The lease became effective March 1, 1995, and provided for the
 phased occupancy of space during 1995. Rental of the entire premises
commenced January 1, 1996. The Company previously had executed a lease
amendment with the original tenant, under the terms of which that lease was
terminated 33 months before the original lease expiration date. In 1995, the
 rental income from the Tempe building, which had been $505,000
annually under the original lease, was reduced to $349,000, exclusive of certain
costs of approximately $153,000 related to the new lease arrangements.
On January 1, 1996, when Bank One began paying rent on the entire building,
base rents due under the new lease increased to: $1,452,000 in 1996; $1,628,000
in 1997; $1,707,200 in 1998; $1,826,000 in 1999; $1,848,000 in 2000; $1,936,000
in 2001; $1,953,600 in 2002; $1,975,600 in 2003; $1,980,000 in 2004; and 
$330,000 for the two months ending February 28, 2005, when the original lease
term ends. During that period, the Company will amortize income from the lease
on a straight-line basis, as required by generally accepted accounting
principles. Accordingly, in 1996 and 1997 the Company reported - and in each of
the remaining seven years of the original lease term will report - rental income
from the lease of $1,815,000, the average rental during the period January 1,
1996 through February 28, 2005. The lease also provides for two five-year
renewal periods, with base rents equal to the market rental rates then in effect
in the metropolitan Phoenix area.

 Other Real Estate. The Company also owns approximately 21 acres of
undeveloped land in suburban Nashville, Tennessee of which 15 acres is zoned
high density residential and 6 acres is zoned commercial.

 2


 In the last quarter of 1997 the Company formed a new subsidiary to make
an initial investment of $300,000, as a member of a limited liability company,
in the construction and ownership of 130 four bedroom townhome units to be
located at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, North Carolina.

Foreign Operations

 The Company has no foreign operations and has no material assets in
foreign countries. A wholly owned foreign subsidiary holds 22% of the common
stock of Trout Creek Development Corporation, a Delaware corporation, the
 development subsidiary.

Employees

 Currently, the Company has seven employees.

Competition

 The Company competes with many other firms and individuals who develop
real estate or hold undeveloped property for lease or sale or developed property
for lease or sale. While competitive conditions vary substantially, depending
upon the geographical area and the type of real estate asset, within a
particular market the most significant competitive factors generally are
location, price and zoning.

 Development of the Meadow Pointe project will take several more years
and is dependent upon, among other things, the availability of future financing
on terms satisfactory to the Company, the strength of the general economy and
employment growth in the Tampa area, residential mortgage interest rates,
competitive residential developments serving the same group of home buyers and
other factors related to the local Tampa real estate market. During 1996 and
1997 construction began at several other residential projects in the same market
area as Meadow Pointe, along or near County Road 581. These new projects may
have an adverse impact on the rate of lot sales at Meadow Pointe or lot prices,
or both.

 It is expected that the Tempe, Arizona property will remain under lease
with the existing tenant until at least March 2005. The Company expects to sell
or develop its Nashville property when local conditions warrant.


Other Information

 The current business constitutes a single business segment,
real estate, consisting of several properties. Financial and other information
relating to the operations by industry segments for the past three
years is, therefore, omitted. See the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

 Except for the lease of the 220,000 square foot Tempe commercial
building to one tenant, the Company is not dependent upon a single
customer or a limited number of customers, and is not seasonal. The Company
does not utilize raw materials, has no order backlog, and no material portion of
its business is subject to government contracts. The Company has no trademarks,
service marks or tradenames other than Meadow Pointe. The Company does not
engage in or make any expenditures with respect to research and development
activities, and the Company is not materially affected by compliance
with federal, state or local provisions regulating the discharge of materials
into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment.

 3

 

YEAR 1998, CIK 819521, ______________________________

Item 1. Business

 General Development 

H.D. Vest, Inc. (Company), founded by Herb D. Vest, was formed on December 17,
1986, as a Texas corporation. The Company is a financial services company,
organized for the purpose of investing in financial service companies and
providing management services to such companies as well as other entities. The
Company also conducts operations under the corporate assumed name of H.D. Vest
Financial Services. The Company owns all outstanding shares of the following
subsidiaries:

 H.D. Vest, Inc.
 d/b/a H.D. Vest Financial Services

 Incorporated 
 Subsidiaries (TEXAS) Services 
 H.D. Vest Investment Securities, Inc. 1983 Registered Securities
"HDVIS" Broker-dealer 
 Products:
 Mutual Funds 
 Unit Investment Trusts
 Limited Partnerships 
 Stocks and Bonds 

H.D. Vest Advisory Services, Inc. 1987 Registered Investment
"HDVAS" Advisor 
 Agent Licensing 
 Assistance 
 Money Management
 Services 

H.D. Vest Mortgage Services, Inc. 1989 Inactive Subsidiary
"HDVMS" 
 
H.D. Vest Collateral Management Company 1988 Inactive Subsidiary
"HDVCMC" 
 
H.D. Vest Business Valuation Services, Inc. 1987 Inactive Subsidiary
"HDVBVS" 
 
H.D. Vest Corporate Finance, Inc. 1990 Inactive Subsidiary
"HDVCF"

The Company was established to meet the growing demand for professional
financial services, and to provide such services primarily through tax
professionals. The management 

 2

 
believes that the tax professional is uniquely qualified to give confidential
professional financial advice and implement financial plans due to the tax
 knowledge of his or her clients' financial affairs. The Company
offers the tax professional the means to provide personalized financial services
to the consumer while simultaneously providing the tax professional with an
additional source of income.

The Company actively recruits tax professionals to become affiliated with the
 subsidiaries HDVIS and HDVAS, and an affiliated insurance entity, in
order to maintain and expand a network for providing financial services.
Representatives registered with the Company include CPAs, CFPs, Enrolled Agents
(EA), CFAs, tax attorneys, and other tax professionals. Many hold state or
national offices in CPA societies, EA organizations and public accounting
societies.

The subsidiary HDVIS is a securities broker-dealer, registered with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and securities regulatory
commissions in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico. HDVIS is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers
(NASD), Securities Investors Protection Corporation (SIPC) and the Securities
Industry Association (SIA). HDVIS' Representatives are primarily tax
professionals located throughout the United States that provide their clients
with a wide range of financial services consisting of such investments as mutual
funds, unit investment trusts, limited partnership interests, stocks and bonds.
The Company utilizes the Representative base of HDVIS to market other services
provided by the Company through its subsidiaries and an affiliated insurance
entity.

The subsidiary HDVAS is an investment advisor registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and various state regulatory agencies as well
as a member of the Investment Company Institute. The Representatives
can register as Investment Advisor Representatives under HDVAS. HDVAS has
developed proprietary fee-based services, which give its Representatives the
capability of providing fee-based money management services to their clients.

 3

 
 Financial Information About Industry Segments

The Company and its subsidiaries operate primarily in a single industry segment:
securities brokerage and related financial services. The following table sets
forth the total revenues by major source:
 
 SUMMARY OF SOURCES OF REVENUE

 Year ending September 30,
 1998 1997 1996
 Commission Revenue 
 Mutual Fund and UITs $ 75,289,791 $54,222,732 $44,960,556
 Insurance Products 13,785,487 10,098,858 7,753,815
 Stocks, Bonds and 
 Options 6,006,235 4,084,707 2,752,832
 Partnership Interests 174,060 101,885 126,945
 Trading 102,282 228,217 29,863
Portfolio Management Fees 17,049,614 11,070,632 6,480,537
Marketing and Education 
 Fees 7,319,004 6,396,111 4,182,201
Facility and Service Fees 
 from Affiliate 493,604 538,700 416,298
All Other 1,033,559 1,082,540 806,175
 
Total Revenue $121,253,636 $87,824,382 $67,509,222
 
The Company had assets of $29,111,026, $19,747,631 and $16,950,759 for the years
ended September 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The Company had net
income of $1,427,312, $2,142,063 and $1,188,707 for the years ended September
30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

 Narrative Description 

 THE REGISTRANT AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES
 
The Company conducts its business under its corporate name and under the assumed
name of H.D. Vest Financial Services. Through its business divisions and
nationwide network of Representatives, the Company provides a comprehensive
package of financial services and products.

 4

 
The various services of the Company, provided by the Company and/or its
subsidiaries, are as follows and are discussed in more detail on the pages that
follow:


 Entity Name: Service Performed
 H.D. Vest, Inc. Technical and Sales Support Services,
 Regional Support System, Educational
 Services, Representative Recruiting,
 Representative Development, Information
 Services, Insurance Agency Management
 Services.

H.D. Vest Investment Securities, Investment Services, Trading and Customer
Inc. Service, Representative Licensing, 
 Compliance and Due Diligence Services.

H.D. Vest Advisory Services, Inc. Professional Investment Advisory Services
 
H.D. Vest Mortgage Services, Inc. Inactive Subsidiary
 
H.D. Vest Collateral Management 
Company, Inc. Inactive Subsidiary
 
H.D. Vest Business Valuation 
Services, Inc. Inactive Subsidiary
 
H.D. Vest Corporate Finance, Inc. Inactive Subsidiary


TECHNICAL AND SALES SUPPORT SERVICES

The Company has assembled staff experts in areas of individual and business
financial planning, including Certified Public Accountants, Certified Financial
Planners, Chartered Financial Analysts, Chartered Life Underwriters, Certified
Investment Management Analysts, Chartered Financial Consultants, Certified
Employee Benefits Specialists, Chartered Pension Consultants, Enrolled Agents,
Certified Management Accountants, American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants-Accredited Personal Financial Specialists, Lawyers and Pension and
Executive Compensation Certificate recipients. The staff of financial
professionals provide financial planning and product information to H.D. Vest
Representatives who in turn assist their clients with their financial planning
needs. These services to 

 5

 
clients include, but are not limited to, investment and insurance planning and
product selection, portfolio management, assistance in establishment of employee
benefit plans, and estate planning.

REGIONAL SUPPORT SYSTEM

The Company has developed a local support system designed to provide
Representatives assistance in all aspects of financial planning including sales
and marketing training, time management, practice management, financial
products, and case studies. The program training is facilitated with monthly
meetings held across the country between the months of May and December. The
Regional Support System (RSS) also provides a network for Representatives to
consult with each other and analyze actual client situations. This system
operates on the philosophy that the Representatives will learn from other
Representatives who have successfully added financial planning services to their
practices.

Each RSS group is led by a successful H.D. Vest Representative. This
Representative has met specified criteria and attended Company training prior
to training fellow H.D. Vest Representatives. The Regional Support System is
divided into Mentor, Chapter and Summit teams determined by varying degrees of
Representative production.

EDUCATIONAL SERVICES

The Company develops educational materials and seminars designed to enhance the
technical skills and knowledge of Representatives. The educational materials
developed for the Representatives and their clients include, but are
not limited to training videos, self study courses, computer based training
programs, newsletters and promotional pieces. The seminars include
two national events, each offering Representatives a full week of training, as
well as other seminars such as the "Tax Season Crash Course" which provides
investment training prior to the tax rush experienced by Representatives
preparing tax returns for their clients.

During fiscal 1998 the Company introduced regional conferences to the seminar
offering. These conferences are located in cities across the country and are
designed to offer training on the Internet site, computer software and
technical investment topics.

 6

 
REPRESENTATIVE RECRUITING

At September 30, 1998, the Company has approximately 5,828 fully licensed
Representatives and approximately 1,474 Representatives in various stages of
licensing.

The Company recruits Representatives for its subsidiaries HDVIS and HDVAS and an
affiliated insurance entity. Since its inception, the Company has developed a
recruiting process which the Company believes results in a larger network for
distribution of financial products and services. Based on its experience in
this area, the Company typically uses methods that have been the most effective
in the past. These methods include direct mail, recruiting seminars,
telemarketing, trade shows, referral incentive programs, trade publication
advertising and various educational events. The Company may employ additional
methods of recruiting in order to develop and determine the effectiveness of
such alternatives.

REPRESENTATIVE DEVELOPMENT

The Representative Development process is the cornerstone of the 
concept of providing the client with the most qualified professional
Representative available. The Company has made, and will continue to make,
significant investments in the development of programs to provide
Representatives with training designed to keep them apprised of financial
opportunities for their clients.

The Company requires its Representatives to obtain specific licenses, complete
training programs and follow prescribed procedures in adding financial planning
and implementation services to their practices.

The training and marketing programs offered by the Company to its
Representatives include software support such as an asset allocation and tax
form based investment analysis program. The training and marketing programs
also offer educational events such as the RSS meetings (described above) and
marketing initiatives including self-study kits, newsletters, and various other
regional and national meetings sponsored by the Company.

 7

 
INFORMATION SERVICES

The Information Services Department provides computer support services for both
the Company and its Representatives.

At the Company level, the Information Services Department is responsible for
developing programs and maintaining the hardware that supports operations.
During fiscal 1998, the Company upgraded its computer infrastructure with faster
computers and a more stable network for information processing. The Information
Services Department also provided support for new processing systems in human
resource management, accounting and transaction processing.

At the Representative level, the Information Services Department continued to
develop the Internet site and other programs to support the
Representatives. The H.D. Vest Internet site provides or will provide the
Representatives with access to account information, consolidated statements,
stock quotes and market news, while creating a venue for sharing ideas with
other Representatives. Other programs developed to assist the Representatives
include a CD-ROM Resource Library, which provides reference materials and
investment transaction forms, the CD-ROM Financial Check-Up System that assists
in identifying clients needs, and the CD-ROM RSP which provides training on
investment basics.

INSURANCE AGENCY MANAGEMENT SERVICES

The Company provides management services to an affiliated insurance agency, H.D.
Vest Insurance Services(HDVIns). HDVIns represents a diversified spectrum of
national insurance companies offering life, health, disability, long-term care
and variable and fixed annuity products for both individuals and businesses.
Representatives of the Company are licensed through HDVIns to sell insurance
products. These Representatives are paid a commission on such sales by HDVIns
or HDVIS in certain circumstances. The Company does not receive any portion of
these commissions but does receive a facility and service fee for management and
other services rendered by the Company. The Company has charged HDVIns a
facility and service fee of $493,604, $538,700 and $416,298 for the years ended
September 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 

 8

 
As of September 30, 1998, the Company had a receivable of approximately $138,496
from HDVIns.

INVESTMENT SERVICES

H.D. Vest Investment Securities, Inc., formed in 1983 as a Texas Corporation, is
registered as a broker-dealer in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and is the investment products and trading
subsidiary of the Company. HDVIS offers non-proprietary investment products
including mutual funds, unit investment trusts, direct investments, stocks and
bonds. HDVIS is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, the
Securities Investors Protection Corporation, and the Securities Industry
Association.

TRADING AND CUSTOMER SERVICE

Trading and customer services are provided by the Company to its Representatives
on an ongoing basis. The trading room processes trades in mutual
funds, direct investments, and unit investment trusts and individual securities.
In addition, the H.D. Vest Discount Brokerage Service allows investors to buy
and sell individual securities at discounted commission rates.

The following table summarizes the number of securities transactions processed
by the Company:

 Fiscal Years Ended September 30,
 1998 1997 1996
 ---- ---- ----

 5,551,515 4,042,941 2,422,705

The Company clears stock and bond trades and certain mutual fund and direct
participation programs, on a fully disclosed basis, through National Financial
Services Corporation, 161 Devonshire Street, Mail Stop D6, Boston, Massachusetts
02110. National Financial Services Corporation, as the clearing firm for HDVIS,
maintains all stock, bond and option transactions of HDVIS' customers on its own
records. The majority of transactions involving mutual funds and direct
participation programs are handled directly with the product distributors.

REPRESENTATIVE LICENSING

The Company provides step-by-step assistance to Representatives in obtaining
their securities, insurance and Registered Investment 

 9

 
Advisor licenses, including educational programs for exams and administrative
processing through the National Association of Securities Dealers, and the state
agencies supervising securities and insurance licensing.

COMPLIANCE AND SUPERVISION

The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation on both the
federal and state levels, with which the Company and its subsidiaries must
comply (see Government Regulation). HDVIS and HDVAS must maintain current
registration with the applicable regulatory bodies.

The Company requires that all Representatives follow the Compliance
and Supervisory Procedures. The Compliance Department is responsible
for Representatives' compliance with rules of the regulatory bodies that
supervise the financial services industry. Due to the strict regulation of the
financial services industry by federal and state agencies, it is important that
the Company stay abreast of the activities of its Representatives and internal
staff. The Compliance Department supervises the investing activities
of all Representatives.

PROFESSIONAL INVESTMENT ADVISORY SERVICES

H.D. Vest Advisory Services, Inc. conducts the investment advisory activities of
the Company. HDVAS, formed in 1987 as a Texas corporation, is registered as an
investment advisor with the Securities and Exchange Commission and various state
regulatory agencies and is a member of the Investment Company Institute. The
 Representatives can register as Investment Advisor Representatives
under HDVAS, giving them the ability to provide fee-based financial planning
services to their clients.

HDVAS provides three fee-based services. The VestPremiere Investment Program is
designed for clients with a minimum $100,000 of investable assets, and allows
individual investors, foundations, endowments, retirement plans and trusts to
access comprehensive and independent consulting services that historically were
reserved for only large institutional investors. This service helps investors to
determine an appropriate asset allocation and to choose the proper money
managers to manage various portions of their investment portfolio. A quarterly
report is provided to each client detailing investment performance.

 10

 
The VestFlex Investment Program is designed to provide clients with a minimum
$10,000 of investable assets with asset allocation and professional-monitoring
services. Individual investment objectives and risk tolerances are utilized to
select the optimal portfolio in order to meet the needs. Each
portfolio is invested in a family of mutual funds and diversified into different
asset classes. A quarterly report is provided to each client detailing
investment performance.

The Vest Advisor Investment Program accommodates clients with a minimum of
$25,000 of investable assets. These investments are managed by the 
Representative according to the portfolio goals established by the client. Each
 investment is held in a single brokerage account. A quarterly report
is provided to each client detailing investment performance.

 TRADEMARKS

The Company has trademarks, including H.D. Vest Financial Services, that protect
the Company against the unauthorized use of its corporate name and programs.
These trade names are valuable assets of the Company and unauthorized use of
these trade names are prosecuted as necessary to protect the 
interests.

 GOVERNMENT REGULATION

H.D. VEST INVESTMENT SECURITIES, INC. - The securities industry in the United
States is subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws. The SEC
is the federal agency charged with administration of the federal securities
laws. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers, such as HDVIS, has been
delegated to self-regulatory organizations like the NASD. The NASD conducts
periodic examinations of member broker-dealers. Securities firms are also
subject to regulation by state securities commissions in the states in which
they are registered. HDVIS is currently registered as a broker-dealer in all 50
states, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

The regulations to which broker-dealers are subject cover all aspects of the
securities business, including sales methods, representative supervision, trade
practices among broker-dealers, capital structure of securities firms, record
keeping and the conduct of officers and employees. Additional
legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC and by self-regulatory
organizations, and changes in the interpretation of 

 11

 
enforcement of existing laws and rules often directly affect the method of
operation and profitability of broker-dealers. The SEC and the self-regulatory
organizations may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure,
fine, suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. The
principal purpose of regulations and discipline of broker-dealers is the
protection of customers and the securities markets rather than protection of
creditors and stockholders of broker-dealers ( 3 Legal Proceedings).

HDVIS is a member of the Securities Investors Protection Corporation. SIPC
provides protection to customers (but not shareholders) if a SIPC member fails
financially. Customers (NOT INCLUDING INVESTORS IN THE STOCK OF THE COMPANY) of
HDVIS that have securities and/or cash on deposit with HDVIS, would be protected
up to a maximum of $500,000, including up to $100,000 on claims for cash.

HDVIS is subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule (Rule 15c3-1), which
requires the maintenance of minimum net capital and requires that the ratio of
aggregate indebtedness to net capital, both as defined, shall not exceed 15 to
1. Minimum net capital can never be lower than $250,000 or 6 2/3% of aggregate
indebtedness, as defined, whichever is greater. In computing net capital under
the Uniform Net Capital Rule, various adjustments are made to net worth to
exclude assets which are not readily convertible into cash and to conservatively
state other assets, such as a position in the securities that it holds in
its own account. To that end, a deduction is made against the market value of
such securities to reflect the possibility of a market decline prior to their
disposition. For each dollar that net capital is reduced, by means of such
deductions or otherwise (for example, through operating losses or capital rules,
which are unique to the securities industry), financial restrictions are imposed
upon the Company which are more severe than those imposed on corporations
engaged in certain other types (see Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital
Resources).

 12

 
HDVIS had net capital, required net capital and excess net capital for the years
ended September 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996 as follows:

 1998 1997 1996
 
Net capital $2,134,772 $1,992,987 $1,409,407
 
Required net capital 407,842 381,470 392,490
 
 
Excess net capital $1,726,930 $1,611,517 $1,016,917
 
H.D. VEST ADVISORY SERVICES, INC. - The financial planning industry is subject
to federal regulation under the Investment Advisers act of 1940, requiring those
providing fee-based investment advice to register with the SEC. Most states
also have registration and reporting requirements. HDVAS is registered as an
investment advisor with the SEC and all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

 DEPENDENCE ON A SINGLE CUSTOMER
 
No material part of the consolidated commission revenues is originated
by a single Representative.

 COMPETITION

There is intense competition in the brokerage and insurance industry from large,
diversified, well-capitalized brokerage firms, financial institutions and other
organizations. Retail oriented financial service providers and other financial
institutions are investing substantial funds in advertising and direct
solicitation of customers to increase their market share, and in many cases the
Company is directly competing with such organizations for the same market share.

 EMPLOYEES

At September 30, 1998, the Company employed 301 full-time employees who provide
support services to Representatives of the Company. To the extent that the
Company recruits additional Representatives, the number of employees would be
expected to increase proportionately during the fiscal year ending September
30, 1999.

 13

 
 Employees by Department
 As of September 30, 1998

 Marketing and Technical Support 126
 Administration and Other 42
 Operations 119
 Educational Services 14
 ---
 Total Employees 301
 ===
 
The majority of employees are college graduates and are securities licensed.

YEAR 1998, CIK 877355, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company

 LandAmerica Financial Group, Inc. (formerly Lawyers Title Corporation)
(the "Company") is a holding company organized under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Virginia on June 24, 1991. The principal subsidiary
during 1997, Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation ("Lawyers Title"), has been
engaged since 1925 primarily in the title insurance business through its network
of branches, service offices, subsidiaries and agencies. On February 27, 1998,
the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of
Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company and Transnation Title Insurance
Company ("Commonwealth/Transnation"). See "Recent Acquisition" and of
Commonwealth/Transnation" below. As a holding company, the Company has greater
flexibility in conducting certain operations, especially with regard to capital
transactions, while the operating title insurance subsidiaries remain subject to
regulation by the various states. See "Regulation" below.

Lawyers Title

 Lawyers Title was founded in 1925 in Richmond, Virginia. It soon
expanded into other southeast states and by 1934 had become the largest title
insurance company in the South, with over 3,000 approved attorneys and agents.
Branches and agents were added gradually in other states, and the post-World War
II years promoted substantial growth of Lawyers Title. The business continued to
expand nationally and into U.S. possessions and Canada. By the early 1960s,
Lawyers operations covered the entire country (with the exception of
Iowa, which does not recognize title insurance).

 In the 1970s, Lawyers Title purchased two title underwriters, Mid-South
Title Insurance Corporation ("Mid-South Title"), headquartered in Memphis,
Tennessee, and Land Title Insurance Company ("Land Title"), headquartered in
California. In the 1980s, Lawyers Title combined its California operations,
improving its service and operations in the state which provides the single
largest source of premium revenue for the title insurance industry. California
World Financial Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiary, California - World
Title Company, merged into an entity then known as Continental Land Title
Company, which ultimately became a subsidiary of Lawyers Title, with operations
in California, Oregon and Arizona. In 1997, the name was changed from
"Continental Lawyers Title Company" to "Lawyers Title Company."

 In 1994, Lawyers Title purchased two additional title underwriters,
Oregon Title Insurance Company ("Oregon Title"), headquartered in Portland,
Oregon, and Title Insurance Company of America ("TICA"), headquartered in
Dallas, Texas. Effective December 1, 1995, TICA was merged into Mid-South Title,
whose name was changed to Title Insurance Company of America (hereinafter "TICA"
refers to such surviving corporation).

 Lawyers Title has its National Headquarters offices at 6630 West Broad
Street, Richmond, Virginia 23230. Its telephone number is (804) 281-6700. Unless
the context otherwise requires, Lawyers Title, as used herein, refers to Lawyers
Title and each of its branches, service offices, subsidiaries and agencies.

 -2-


General

 Lawyers Title is engaged in the business of providing title insurance
and related services. In addition to writing title insurance, in some states
Lawyers Title furnishes certificates of title and abstracts of title. As an
incident to the issuance of title insurance, Lawyers Title also offers a closing
protection letter to lenders and owners who purchase title insurance, and in
some areas it also serves as an escrow agent in closing real estate
transactions.

 Most title insurance policies sold by Lawyers Title and its
subsidiaries are underwritten by Lawyers Title; however, title insurance
policies are also underwritten by Oregon Title in Oregon, and TICA is licensed
and qualified to underwrite policies in Texas, Tennessee, Florida, Ohio,
Georgia, Louisiana, Alabama, Arkansas, Virginia, Michigan, Illinois, Colorado,
New Mexico, Indiana, Maryland, District of Columbia and Kentucky. Land Title
only reissues policies it has previously issued. Policies previously issued by
Mid-South Title remain in effect in Tennessee, Mississippi, Arkansas, Alabama,
Florida, Georgia and Louisiana.

 Lawyers Title is conducted in 49 states and in the District
of Columbia, the territories of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the
Bahamas and a number of Canadian provinces. Geographical coverage is provided by
Lawyers nationwide network of 14 National Division offices and
approximately 260 branch and closing/escrow offices. In addition, Lawyers Title
has approximately 3,800 independent agents and 36,000 approved attorneys.

 Title insurance policies are written through and issued by branch
offices of Lawyers Title and its underwriting subsidiaries, by title insurance
agents or by some combination thereof. Agencies may be either independently
owned or subsidiaries of Lawyers Title. In the western states, Lawyers Title
operates primarily through independent agents and subsidiaries (Lawyers Title
Company, American Title Group, Inc., Lawyers Title of Arizona, Inc. and Oregon
Title), while its eastern operations are conducted through branch offices,
agents and approved attorneys. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997,
approximately 53.2% of total title insurance revenues were derived from direct
operations (company branches and wholly owned subsidiary agencies) and 46.8%
came from independent agents. As of December 31, 1997, no single independent
agent was the source of more than 5% of the title insurance revenues of Lawyers
Title.

 Lawyers Title and its subsidiaries also provide escrow services to
customers in various areas of the country. Primarily in the western states, it
is a general practice, incident to the issuance of title insurance policies, to
hold funds and documents in escrow for delivery in real estate transactions upon
fulfillment of the conditions to such delivery. In the mid-western states,
Florida and some eastern cities, it is customary for the title company to close
the transaction and disburse the sale or loan proceeds. Fees for such escrow and
closing services are generally separate and distinct from the title insurance
premiums.

 Lawyers Title has two wholly owned subsidiaries devoted to computer
automation of various aspects of the title insurance business, including on-line
title plants, policy issuance and closing documentation and support functions.
These are Datatrace Information Services Company, Inc. and Elliptus Software
Solutions, Inc. Another subsidiary, Lawyers Title Exchange Company, facilitates
tax-free property exchanges pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue
Code by holding the sale proceeds from one transaction until a second
acquisition occurs, thereby assisting customers in deferring the recognition of
taxable income.

 In 1996, Lawyers Title formed a new subsidiary, Lawyers Title Services
Company, Inc. ("LTSC") to coordinate residential real estate transactions for
national lenders and to provide other real estate related products and services
(such as appraisals, tax services, flood certification, surveys, and document
preparation) through a single source. LTSC is currently qualified in 22 



states. Also in 1996, Lawyers Title, through a newly formed subsidiary, Global
Corporate Services, Inc. acquired a 50% ownership interest in Argonaut
Relocation Services, LLC ("Argonaut") a Michigan limited liability company.
Argonaut, which employs approximately 120 individuals, offers a full line of
employee relocation services to companies moving employees anywhere in the
world.

Title Insurance

 In general, title insurance policies indemnify the insured from losses
resulting from certain outstanding liens, encumbrances and other defects in
title to real property that appear as matters of public record, and from certain
other matters not of public record. Many of the principal customers of title
insurance companies buy insurance for the accuracy and reliability of the title
search as well as for the indemnity features of the policy. The beneficiaries of
title insurance policies are generally owners or buyers of real property or
parties who make loans on the security of real property. An policy
protects the XX insured against title defects, liens and encumbrances
existing as of the date of the policy and not specifically excluded or excepted
from its provisions, while a policy, in addition to the foregoing,
insures against the invalidity of the lien of the insured mortgage and insures
the priority of the lien as stated in the title policy.

 Lawyers Title issues title insurance policies on the basis of a title
report, which is prepared pursuant to underwriting guidelines prescribed in
manuals published by Lawyers Title, after a search of the public records, maps
and documents to ascertain the existence of easements, restrictions, rights of
way, conditions, encumbrances, liens or other matters affecting the title to, or
use of, real property. In certain instances, a visual inspection of the property
is also made. Title examinations may be made by branch employees, agency
XX or approved attorneys, whose reports are utilized by or rendered to a
branch or agent and are the basis for the issuance of policies by such branch or
agent.

 In the case of difficult or unusual legal or underwriting issues
involving potential title risks, the branch office or agent is instructed to
consult with a supervising Lawyers Title office. Contracts with agencies require
that the agent seek prior approval of Lawyers Title in order to commit Lawyers
Title to assume a risk over a stated dollar limit. Pursuant to agency
agreements, Lawyers Title assumes all of the risks to the insured, in the
absence of certain types of misconduct by the agent, in return for a portion of
the premium received.

 Lawyers Title owns a number of title plants and in some areas leases or
participates with other title insurance companies or agents in the cooperative
operating of such plants. Title plants are compilations of copies of public
records, maps and documents that are indexed to specific properties in an area,
and they serve to facilitate the preparation of title reports. In many of the
larger markets, the title plant and search procedures have been automated. To
maintain the value of the title plants, Lawyers Title continually updates its
records by regularly adding current information from the public records and
other sources. In this way, Lawyers Title maintains the ability to produce
quickly and at a reduced expense a statement of the instruments which constitute
the chain of title to a particular property.

 The premium for title insurance is due in full when the title
transaction is closed, and the policy amount is usually based upon the purchase
price of the property or the amount of the loan secured by the property. While
most other forms of insurance provide for the assumption of risk of loss arising
out of unforeseen future events, title insurance serves to protect the
policyholder from the risk of loss from events that predate the issuance of the
policy. This distinction underlies the low claims loss experience of title
insurers as compared to other insurance underwriters. Losses generally result
either from judgment errors or mistakes made in the title search and examination
process or the escrow process or from hidden defects such as fraud, 

 -4-


forgery, incapacity or missing heirs. Operating expenses, on the other hand, are
higher for title insurance companies than for other companies in the insurance
industry. Most title insurers incur considerable costs relating to the XX
required to process forms, search titles, collect information on specific
properties and prepare title insurance commitments and policies.

 A title policy can be issued directly by a title insurer or indirectly
on behalf of a title insurer through agents which are not themselves licensed as
insurers. Where the policy is issued by a title insurer, the search is performed
by or at the direction of the title insurer, and the premium is collected and
retained by the title insurer. Where the policy is issued through an agent, the
agent generally performs the search (in some areas searches are performed by
approved attorneys), examines the title, collects the premium and retains a
portion of the premium. The remainder of the premium is remitted to the title
insurer as compensation for bearing the risk of loss in the event a claim is
made under the policy. The percentage of the premium retained by an agent varies
from region to region and is sometimes regulated by the states. A title insurer
is obligated to pay title claims in accordance with the terms of its policies,
regardless of whether it issued its policy directly or indirectly through an
agent.

Insured Risk on Policies in Force

 The amount of the insured risk or "face amount" of insurance under a
title insurance policy is generally equal to either the purchase price of the
property or the amount of the loan secured by the property. The insurer is also
responsible for the cost of defending the insured title against covered claims.
The actual exposure at any time is significantly less than the total
face amount of policies in force because the risk on an policy is often
reduced over time as a result of subsequent transfers of the property and the
reissuance of title insurance by other title insurance underwriters, and the
coverage of a policy is reduced and eventually terminated as a result
of payment of the mortgage loan. Because of these factors, the total contingent
liability of a title underwriter on outstanding policies cannot be precisely
ascertained.

 In the ordinary course , Lawyers Title and its underwriting
subsidiaries represent and defend the interests of their insureds, and provide
on the Company books for estimated losses and loss adjustment expenses. Title
insurers are sometimes subject to unusual claims (such as claims of Indian
tribes to land formerly inhabited by them) and to claims arising outside the
insurance contract, such as for alleged negligence in search, examination or
closing, alleged improper claims handling and alleged bad faith. The damages
alleged in such claims arising outside the insurance contract may often exceed
the stated liability limits of the policies involved. While Lawyers Title in the
ordinary course of its business has been subject from time to time to these
types of claims, Lawyers losses to date on such claims have not been
significant in number or material in dollar amount to the financial
condition. In recent years, Lawyers Title has also experienced several large
claims resulting from agent escrow defalcations, and as a result of experience
in those cases, has put in place more stringent agent qualification and audit
procedures.

 Liabilities for estimated losses and loss adjustment expenses represent
the estimated ultimate net cost of all reported and unreported losses incurred
through December 31, 1997. The reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment
expenses are estimated using individual case-basis valuations and statistical
analyses. Those estimates are subject to the effects of trends in loss severity
and frequency. Although considerable variability is inherent in such estimates,
management believes that the reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses
are adequate. The estimates are continually reviewed and adjusted as necessary
as experience develops or new information becomes known; such adjustments are
included in current operations. The provision for policy and contract claims as
a percentage of operating revenues for 1997 was 5.4%, for 1996 was 5.2%, and for
1995 was 5.2%. See " Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations - Results of Operations."

 -5-


 Lawyers Title generally pays losses in cash; however, it sometimes
settles claims by purchasing the interest of the insured in the real property or
the interest of the claimant adverse to the insured. Assets acquired in this
manner are carried at the lower of cost or estimated realizable value, net of
any indebtedness thereon.

 Lawyers Title places a high priority on maintaining effective quality
assurance and claims administration programs. Lawyers quality assurance
program focuses on quality control, claims prevention and product risk
assessment in its branches, subsidiaries and independent agencies. The claims
administration program focuses on improving liability analysis, prompt, fair and
effective handling of claims, prompt evaluation of settlement or litigation with
first and third-party claimants and appropriate use of ADR (Alternative Dispute
Resolution) in claims processing. In addition, to reduce the incidence of agency
defalcations, Lawyers Title has strengthened its procedures for renewing
existing agents, has expanded its due diligence requirements in acquiring new
agents and has intensified its Agency Audit Program. The Company continues to
refine its systems for maintaining effective quality assurance and claims
administration programs.

Reinsurance and Coinsurance

 Lawyers Title distributes large title insurance risks through the
mechanisms of reinsurance and coinsurance. In reinsurance agreements, the
reinsurer accepts that part of the risk which the primary insurer (the "ceding
company" or "ceder") decides not to retain, in consideration for a portion of
the premium. A number of factors may enter into a decision to
reinsure, including retention limits imposed by state law, customer demands and
the risk retention philosophy of the company. The ceder, however, remains liable
to the insured for the total risk, whether or not the reinsurer meets its
obligation. As a general rule, when Lawyers Title purchases reinsurance on a
particular risk it will retain a primary risk of $5.0 million and may
participate with reinsurers on liability amounts above the primary level on a
secondary level. In the absence of specific approval by management, reinsurance
generally is purchased if the risk is greater than $35.0 million.

 Lawyers Title also assumes reinsurance from other title insurance
underwriters pursuant to a standard reinsurance agreement concerning specific
title insurance risks for properties on which it assumes a portion of the
liability. Lawyers Title has entered into numerous reinsurance agreements with
other title insurance underwriters on specific transactions. Lawyers 
exposure on all reinsurance assumed is reduced due to retention by the ceding
company of a substantial primary risk level. In addition, exposure under these
agreements generally ceases upon a transfer of the insured properties and, with
respect to insured loans, is decreased by reductions in mortgage loan balances.
Because of this, the actual exposure is much less than the total reinsurance
which Lawyers Title has assumed. Lawyers Title provides loss reserves on assumed
reinsurance business on a basis consistent with reserves for direct business.

 Lawyers Title also utilizes coinsurance to enable it to provide
coverage in amounts greater than it would be willing or able to undertake
individually. Under coinsurance transactions, each individual underwriting
company issues its individual policy and assumes a fraction of the overall total
risk. There is liability for each participating company for the particular
fraction of the risk it assumes.

 Lawyers Title enters into reinsurance and coinsurance arrangements with
most of the larger participants in the title insurance market and such
arrangements are not materially concentrated with any single title insurance
company. Revenues and claims from reinsurance are not material to Lawyers
Title as a whole.


 -6-


Title Insurance Premium Revenues

 In the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, premiums from the
issuance of title policies represented 78.9%, 76.8% and 79.9%, respectively, of
the consolidated revenues.

 The table below sets forth, for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996
and 1995, the approximate dollars and percentages of the title
insurance premium revenues for the ten states representing the largest
percentages of such revenues and for all other states combined:

 Lawyers Title
 Title Insurance Premiums by State
 (Dollars in thousands)

 Years Ended December 31,
 1997 1996 1995
 Amount % Amount % Amount %

Texas $111,252 22.1 $ 98,762 21.6 $ 82,604 21.4
Florida 38,163 7.6 33,340 7.3 26,852 7.0
California ... 36,438 7.2 32,148 7.0 28,530 7.4
Pennsylvania . 36,034 7.2 30,223 6.6 29,468 7.6
New York 26,810 5.3 24,318 5.3 17,396 4.5
Michigan 25,342 5.0 23,067 5.1 20,625 5.3
Virginia 21,486 4.3 20,613 4.5 19,968 5.2
Ohio 19,356 3.8 18,130 4.0 14,503 3.8
New Jersey ... 16,844 3.3 15,391 3.4 14,123 3.7
Massachusetts. 13,802 2.7 13,356 2.9 11,187 2.9
All Others ... 158,497 31.5 147,029 32.3 120,615 31.2
 ---- ---- ----

 Totals .. $504,024 100.0 $456,377 100.0 $385,871 100.0
 

Sales and Marketing

 Although Lawyers Title enhances its business development through
general advertising, it believes its primary source is from the real
estate community, such as attorneys, real estate brokers and developers,
financial institutions, mortgage brokers and independent escrow agents. Lawyers
Title results from construction and sale of new housing, resales and
refinancings of residential real estate and from commercial real estate
activity. In the 1990s Lawyers Title has placed a renewed emphasis on
residential real estate activity while maintaining a leadership position in
insuring commercial real estate transactions. Although precise data are not
available to compare the percentage of total premium revenues of Lawyers Title
derived from commercial versus residential real estate activities, approximately
80% of such revenues in 1997 resulted from policies providing coverage of $1.0
million or less (which tend to be residential) and approximately 20% of such
revenues resulted from policies providing coverage in excess of $1.0 million.

 Regional differences exist in Lawyers sales and marketing
emphasis. In eastern metropolitan areas, for instance, Lawyers Title has
emphasized the marketing of title insurance for commercial real estate
transactions. In the western states, primarily California, the principal source
 has been resales and refinancings of residential real estate and
construction and sales of new housing.

 -7-


 To increase profits and improve margins, Lawyers Title is expanding its
direct operations in markets with projected growth, attractive title insurance
rates and favorable claims experience. Since 1992, Lawyers Title has acquired
title operations in Texas, North Carolina, Oregon, Florida, Virginia, Maryland,
District of Columbia, Ohio, Maine, Michigan, New Mexico, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. In addition, within the last four years Lawyers
Title has added closing/escrow offices and sales representatives in many
markets.

 Lawyers Title has gained a favorable reputation for its National
Division offices which specialize in the sale and servicing of title insurance
for complex commercial and multi-property transactions. Lawyers Title has 14
such offices located in strategic metropolitan areas throughout the country.
Each of these National Division offices markets title insurance products and
services to large commercial customers in its areas and serves the 
title insurance needs throughout the country.

 LTSC, located at Lawyers National Headquarters, also services
national lenders which seek to obtain title insurance products and services as
well as a variety of other real estate related products and services such as
appraisals, tax services, flood certifications, surveys and document preparation
through a single source. LTSC is able to offer lenders one stop shopping for
such products and services based on the internal capabilities of Lawyers Title
and strategic alliances with other providers.

Customers

 Lawyers Title is not dependent upon any single customer or any single
group of customers. The loss of any one customer would not have a material
adverse effect on Lawyers Title.

Competition

 The title insurance business is very competitive. Competition is based
primarily on price, service and expertise. The size and financial strength of
the insurer are also important factors, particularly for larger commercial
customers. Title insurance underwriters also compete for agents on the basis of
service and commission levels.

 Lawyers Title is one of the largest title insurance underwriters in the
United States based on gross title revenues. Its principal competitors are other
major title insurance underwriters and their agency networks. In 1997, these
included Chicago Title Insurance Company, First American Title Insurance
Company, Commonwealth/Transnation (acquired by the Company on February 27,
1998), Stewart Title Guaranty Company, Old Republic National Title Insurance
Company and Fidelity National Title Insurance Company. Of the more than one
hundred title insurance underwriting companies licensed in the United States,
the top seven companies account for approximately 89% of the title insurance
market.

 The title insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by
the insurance authorities of the states in which they do business. See
"Regulation." Within this regulatory framework, the Company competes with
respect to premium rates, coverage, risk evaluation, service and business
development.

 State regulatory authorities impose underwriting limits on title
insurers based primarily on levels of available capital and surplus. While such
limits may theoretically hinder the title insurance subsidiaries'
assumption of a particular large underwriting liability, in practice the Company
has established its own internal risk limits at levels substantially lower than
those allowed by state law. Therefore, statutory capital-based risk limits are
not considered by the Company to be a significant factor in the amount or size
of underwriting it may undertake.

 -8-


Regulation

 The title insurance business is regulated by state regulatory
authorities who possess broad powers relating to the granting and revoking of
licenses, and the type and amount of investments which Lawyers Title and its
insurance subsidiaries may make. These state authorities also regulate insurance
rates, forms of policies and the form and XXof required annual statements,
and have the power to audit and examine the financial records of these
companies. Under state laws, certain levels of capital and surplus must be
maintained and certain amounts of portfolio securities must be segregated or
deposited with appropriate state officials. State regulatory policies also
restrict the amount of dividends which insurance companies may pay without prior
regulatory approval.

 The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has adopted model
legislation which if enacted would regulate title insurers and agents nationally
and change certain statutory reporting requirements. The proposed legislation
also would require title insurers to audit agents periodically and require
licensed agents to maintain professional liability insurance. The Company cannot
predict whether the proposed legislation or any provision thereof will be
adopted in Virginia or any other state. In 1996, Virginia enacted legislation
requiring an annual certification of reserve adequacy by a qualified actuary to
comply with the new statutory reporting requirements.

 A substantial portion of the assets of Lawyers Title and its
underwriting subsidiaries consists of their portfolios of investment securities.
As a title insurance company domiciled in Virginia, Lawyers Title is required by
state statute to maintain assets of a statutorily defined quality in an amount
equal to its total liabilities determined on a statutory basis plus 50% of
statutory equity. For statutory purposes, the total liabilities
include a statutory premium reserve, reserves established for losses in the
course of settlement ("case reserves") and other liabilities related to
operations.

 The statutorily required assets are maintained by Lawyers Title in
investment-grade corporate securities and United States, state and local
obligations. In addition to these investments, Lawyers Title maintains
portfolios of cash and cash-equivalents. The investment portfolios are managed
by professional investment advisors whose work is reviewed by the Pension and
Portfolio Committee of the Board of Directors.

 Land Title, TICA and Oregon Title, domiciled in California, Tennessee
and Oregon, respectively, are similarly required to maintain certain levels and
qualities of assets.

 Many state insurance regulatory laws intended primarily for the
protection of policyholders contain provisions that require advance approval by
state agencies of any change in control of an insurance company or insurance
holding company that is domiciled (or, in some cases, doing business) in that
state. Under such current laws, any future transaction that would constitute a
change in control of the Company would generally require approval by the state
insurance departments of Virginia, California, Tennessee, Texas, Ohio, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Arizona, New Jersey, New York, Florida, Alabama and Maryland. Such
requirement could have the effect of delaying or preventing certain transactions
affecting the control of the Company or the ownership of the Common
Stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to the shareholders of
the Company.


 -9-


Investment Policies

 The Company earns investment income from its portfolio of securities.
Historically, as a general policy, Lawyers Title limited its investments in
equity securities to approximately 50% of its statutory surplus. In 1996, the
Company changed its strategy for insurance company portfolios by shifting away
from investments in equity securities and into fixed-maturity securities. The
Company believes that the effect on future operations will be to replace the
lower dividend yields and variable capital gains experience of the equity
securities with the more steady and predictable stream of interest income from
fixed-maturity securities. The fixed-maturity portfolio consists of investment
grade securities and is designed to comply with the various state regulatory
requirements while maximizing yield. The Company regularly re-examines its
portfolio strategies in light of changing earnings or tax situations. See Note 3
to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the General section of 
Discussion and Analysis for the major categories of investments, contractual
maturities and income received.

Seasonality, Backlog and Cyclicality

 The title insurance business is closely related to overall levels of
real estate activity. Historically, real estate activity has been generally
slower in the winter months with volumes showing significant improvements in the
spring and summer months. The percentage of title orders closed to title orders
opened is typically lower in the first six months than at year end because of
this seasonal variance. In addition, the title insurance business is cyclical
due to the effect of interest rate fluctuations on the level of real estate
activity. Periods of high interest rates adversely affect real estate activity
and therefore premium revenues.

Employees

 As of December 31, 1997, the Company had 4,027 employees. The 
relationship with its employees is good. No employees are currently covered by
any collective bargaining agreements, and the Company is not aware of any union
organizing activity relating to its employees.

Environmental Matters

 Recent title insurance policies specifically exclude any liability for
environmental risks or contamination. Older policies, while not specifically
addressing environmental risks, are not considered to provide any coverage for
such matters, and the Company does not expect any significant expenses related
to environmental claims.

 Lawyers Title sometimes acts as a temporary title holder to real estate
under a nominee holding agreement and Lawyers Title, through its subsidiaries,
sometimes participates in holding agreements involving tax-deferred exchanges.
Lawyers customers in such situations generally are financially strong
entities from whom it secures indemnification for potential environmental and
other claims. In other situations where Lawyers Title might acquire title to
real estate, it will generally require that an appropriate environmental
assessment be made to evaluate and avoid any potential liability.

 -10-


Recent Acquisition

 The strategic focus of the Company has been on growth through carefully
selected acquisitions. Prior to 1997, the acquisitions consisted
primarily of small to medium-size title insurance agencies and underwriters.

 On August 20, 1997, the Company agreed to acquire all of the issued and
outstanding capital stock of Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company
("Commonwealth") and Transnation Title Insurance Company ("Transnation")
(collectively, the "Acquisition") pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement, dated
August 20, 1997, by and among the Company, Lawyers Title, Reliance Group
Holdings, Inc. ("Reliance") and Reliance Insurance Company ("RIC"), as amended
and restated by an Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement, dated December
11, 1997, among such parties (the "Stock Purchase Agreement"). Commonwealth and
Transnation together comprise the third largest title insurance operation in the
United States based upon total premiums and fees in 1996. As a result of the
Acquisition, Commonwealth and Transnation each became wholly owned subsidiaries
of the Company.

 The purchase price paid by the Company in connection with the
Acquisition consisted of approximately $200.7 million in cash funded by a
Revolving Credit Agreement, dated November 7, 1997, between the Company and Bank
of America National Trust and Savings Association, individually and as
Administrative Agent for a syndicate of 11 other financial institutions, (ii)
the issuance to RIC of 4,039,473 shares of the Common Stock, (iii) the
issuance to RIC of 2,200,000 shares of the 7% Series B Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Series B Preferred Stock"), which is initially
convertible into 4,824,561 shares of Common Stock, and (iv) $65.9 million in
cash, representing the net proceeds from the sale of 1,750,000 shares of Common
Stock offered to the public by the Company. The various components of the
purchase price were determined by arms-length negotiations between the parties.
Based upon a value for the 4,039,473 shares of Common Stock of $175.0 million
and an estimated value for the 2,200,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock of
$224.8 million, the aggregate purchase price paid by the Company to RIC at the
closing of the Acquisition was approximately $666.4 million.

 The Company also changed its name from "Lawyers Title Corporation" to
"LandAmerica Financial Group, Inc." effective as of February 27, 1998. The
change in name for the Company is intended to signify, among other things, an
expansion of the products and services beyond traditional title insurance to be
developed and offered by the combined company following the Acquisition. LTIC,
Commonwealth and Transnation will continue to operate under their current names
for the foreseeable future.

 In connection with the consummation of the Acquisition, the Company
amended its Articles of Incorporation to establish the Series B Preferred Stock.
The provisions of the Series B Preferred Stock provide, among other things,
that, in the event of certain defaults related primarily to the 
combined ratio as it compares to comparable title insurance companies and the
 claims-paying ability ratings, the size of the Board of
Directors will be increased by three RIC will be entitled to
designate three additional directors to fill the newly created seats. In
addition, in the event of certain defaults related primarily to dividend
payments on the shares of Series B Preferred Stock, the size of the 
Board of Directors will be increased by three RIC will be entitled
to designate three additional directors to fill the newly created seats.
Furthermore, if the Company defaults on any of its material debt obligations in
excess of $15.0 million or the Company fails to pay the stated dividend on the
Series B Preferred Stock on three occasions, whether or not consecutive, the
Company must increase the size of the Board of Directors to allow additional
directors to be designated by RIC such that the total number of directors
designated by RIC will constitute a majority of the Board of Directors.

 -11-


 In addition, the Company, RIC and Reliance entered into a Voting and
Standstill Agreement dated February 27, 1998. The Voting and Standstill
Agreement, among other things, provides for the designation by RIC of three
directors to be nominated and recommended for election to the Board of
 (ii) prohibits RIC and Reliance and their affiliates from acquiring
any additional shares of Common Stock or Series B Preferred Stock (except as
permitted under the Voting and Standstill Agreement), (iii) requires that RIC
and Reliance and their affiliates vote their shares of Common Stock in a certain
manner depending upon the matter that is subject to a vote of the 
shareholders, (iv) requires the sale of the 4,039,473 shares of Common Stock
acquired by RIC within 6 1/2 years after the effective date of the resale
registration statement for such shares (subject to extension as provided in the
Voting and Standstill Agreement), requires RIC, with respect to the
2,200,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock received by RIC in the Acquisition
and any shares of Common Stock received upon conversion of such shares of Series
B Preferred Stock, to sell so many of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock or
shares of Common Stock received upon conversion thereof held by it or its
affiliates as is necessary to reduce the RIC Ownership Percentage (as defined
below) to less than 20% of the Adjusted Outstanding Shares (as defined below) by
not later than 8 1/2 years after the effective date of the registration
statement for such shares (subject to extension as provided in the Voting and
Standstill Agreement), (vi) restricts the ability of RIC and its affiliates to
convert the shares of Series B Preferred Stock then held by them until all of
the 4,039,473 shares of Common Stock (and certain additional shares that may be
issued with respect to such shares) have been sold to persons that are not, at
the time of the sale, conveyance or transfer, an affiliate of RIC, provided that
such restriction shall not apply upon the occurrence of certain specified events
set forth in the Voting and Standstill Agreement, and (vii) prohibits the
knowing transfer of any of the Acquisition Shares to any person or group if, as
a result of such transfer, such person or group would have beneficial ownership
of Common Stock representing in the aggregate more than 9.9% of the issued and
outstanding shares of Common Stock (subject to exceptions set forth in the
Voting and Standstill Agreement). On February 27, 1998, the Company increased
the size of the Board of Directors from 10 to 14 and elected Herbert Wender,
Robert M. Steinberg, Lowell C. Freiberg and George E. Bello as directors of the
Company.

 "RIC Ownership Percentage" means, at any time, the percentage of the
Adjusted Outstanding Shares that is beneficially owned in the aggregate by RIC
and its affiliates. "Adjusted Outstanding Shares" means, at any time and with
respect to the determination of the RIC Ownership Percentage as it relates to
RIC and its affiliates, the total number of shares of Common Stock then issued
and outstanding together with the total number of shares of Common Stock not
then issued and outstanding that would be outstanding if all then existing
shares of Series B Preferred Stock had been converted and all then existing
warrants and options exercisable into shares of Common Stock had been exercised
(other than underwriters' over-allotment options and stock options granted under
benefit plans of the Company or any of its affiliates), but excluding any rights
that may be exercisable under the shareholder rights plan. As of
February 27, 1998, the 4,039,473 shares of Common Stock acquired by RIC at the
closing of the Acquisition represented approximately 26.8% of the issued and
outstanding shares of Common Stock as of that date, the RIC Ownership Percentage
was 44.6%, the Adjusted Outstanding Shares was 19,869,154 and the total number
of shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding was 15,044,593.

 Finally, the Company and RIC entered into a Registration Rights
Agreement on February 27, 1998. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement,
the Company filed two registration statements with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "Commission") to register, under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, the resale of the 4,039,473 shares of the Common Stock
issued to RIC in the Acquisition, (ii) the 2,200,000 shares of the Series B
Preferred Stock issued to RIC in the Acquisition and (iii) the 4,824,561 shares
of Common Stock that RIC may acquire upon conversion of the Series B Preferred
Stock. Such registration 


 -12-


statements became effective on February 27, 1998. The Registration Rights
Agreement requires the Company to use its best efforts to maintain the
effectiveness of such registration statements for specified time periods.

 A copy of the Series B Preferred Stock designation was included as an
exhibit to the Form 8-A registration statement filed with the
Commission on February 27, 1998. Copies of the Voting and Standstill Agreement
and the Registration Rights Agreement are filed herewith as exhibits to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 The Company continually assesses the growth potential for its business
in its existing markets as well as those markets in which it is not currently
participating. The Company expects that it will continue to evaluate
acquisitions of small to medium-size title insurance agencies and underwriters.
Through acquisitions of independent agencies with a track record of
profitability and the prospect of growth in the future, the Company can expand
revenues while increasing its profit margins and control over the acquired
agencies. In assessing the acquisition of an underwriter, the Company reviews,
among other factors, the profitability, location, growth potential
in its existing market, claims experience and adequacy of its reserves.

Business of Commonwealth/Transnation

 General. Commonwealth was founded as a title insurance company in 1876
and was incorporated in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on April 1, 1944.
Commonwealth is licensed by the insurance departments of 49 states, the District
of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Transnation was
incorporated as an insurance company in the State of Arizona on September 15,
1992. Transnation is the successor by merger to Transamerica Title Insurance
Company, a California corporation incorporated on March 26, 1910. The current
name of the corporation was adopted on September 20, 1995. Transnation is
licensed by the insurance departments of 40 states and the District of Columbia.

 Commonwealth and Transnation, and their respective subsidiaries and
divisions, provide a complete range of title and closing services through an
extensive network of more than 4,000 policy-issuing locations nationwide,
including branch offices, independent agents, and approved attorneys. The
National Title Services division of Commonwealth/Transnation provides
specialized title services for large and multi-state commercial transactions. In
addition to its nationwide title insurance operations, Commonwealth/Transnation
offers a full range of residential real estate services to the national mortgage
lending community through its Commonwealth OneStop network. Commonwealth
OneStop provides appraisal management services through the CLT Appraisal
Services, Inc. subsidiary, (ii) title insurance services through the National
Residential Title Services division, (iii) employee relocation and property
disposition services through Commonwealth Relocation Services, Inc., (iv)
appraisal information systems through the Day One, Inc. subsidiary and 
additional services through independent service providers.

 National Title Services Division. The National Title Services division
of Commonwealth/Transnation, with thirteen (13) offices located in major
metropolitan areas nationwide, delivers complete customized title insurance
packages for large commercial, multi-site and interstate real estate
transactions. The division consists of numerous title insurance and real estate
professionals that comprise an entire network of national branch offices and
agents. Expertise on the local level provides the division with a full
understanding of varying real estate customs and requirements.

 Commonwealth OneStop. Through the Commonwealth OneStop operation,
based in Wayne, Pennsylvania, Commonwealth/Transnation provides national and
regional lenders with a full range of residential closing services. Lenders can
obtain all of the services necessary to 


 -13-


complete residential real estate transactions through a single point of contact.
Such services are easily accessible through Electronic Data Interchange ("EDI"),
by facsimile or through COSMOS - Commonwealth/ electronic mail
ordering system. COSMOS offers lenders that have not yet converted to the EDI
standard an opportunity to place their orders electronically. The key services
on the Commonwealth OneStop network are appraisal management services through
CLT Appraisal Services, Inc. and title insurance services through the National
Residential Title Services division.

 CLT Appraisal Services, Inc. CLT Appraisal Services, Inc. provides the
mortgage lending industry with appraisal services through state-of-the-art
technology. A nationwide network of independent licensed or certified fee
appraisers provides unbiased, third-party opinions from experienced
professionals with knowledge of their local markets. Through a customized
computer interface, telephone or facsimile, branch offices can communicate with
the national processing center in Wayne, Pennsylvania, which handles all aspects
of the process from order placement to status reporting and delivery. Appraisers
are screened before being admitted to the network, and they must meet certain
standards in education, training, licensing and experience.

 National Residential Title Services Division. In connection with
technological advancements that allow real estate transactions to close quickly,
the National Residential Title Services division provides lenders with a single
point of contact for a full range of residential title services. The service of
this division extends to Commonwealth/ entire network of more than
4,000 policy-issuing locations nationwide, including branch offices, independent
agents and approved attorneys. National Residential Title Services provides
lenders with the convenience of one-stop shopping and the flexibility of setting
up procedures that meet with their individual requirements.

 Commonwealth Relocation Services, Inc. Commonwealth Relocation
Services, Inc. ("CRS") is a full-service national relocation management company.
CRS provides complete, diversified services that seek to keep relocation
activities and costs under control. Founded in 1967, CRS is one of the oldest
firms in the relocation business.

 Day One, Inc. Day One, Inc. is a supplier of software for the appraisal
and property inspection industry.

 The National 1031 Exchange Corporation. The National 1031 Exchange
Corporation serves as an independent, third party advisor to facilitate
tax-deferred real property exchanges under Section 1031 of the Code.


YEAR 1998, CIK 907575, ______________________________

Item 1. Business

Business Segments

 Kaye Group Inc. (the "Company") a Delaware corporation, formerly Old Lyme
Holding Corporation ("Holding"), is a holding company which, through its
subsidiaries, is engaged in a broad range of insurance brokerage, underwriting
and related activities. The Company operates in two insurance business segments
- - the Insurance Brokerage Companies Operations ("Brokerage Operations"),
comprised of the Retail Brokerage Business and the Program Brokerage Business,
and the Property and Casualty Companies Operations.

 In addition, Corporate Operations include those activities that benefit the
Company in its entirety and cannot be specifically identified to either the
Brokerage Operations or the Property and Casualty Companies Operations. Such
activities include debt servicing and public company expenses, including
investor relations costs.

 The activities are conducted in New York City, and in offices
located in the states of California, Connecticut and Rhode Island.

Insurance Brokerage Companies Operations

 The Retail Brokerage Business operates insurance brokerage businesses
through four subsidiaries of the Company, the "Retail Brokerage Companies". It
offers commercial clients a full range of insurance brokerage services including
procurement of property/casualty insurance, risk management consulting, bonding,
insurance coverage loss prevention engineering, and group employee benefit
consulting services. In addition, personal lines and life and health insurance
coverage are placed on behalf of individual clients.

 The Retail Brokerage Business' primary strategy is to service middle market
companies and organizations just below the Fortune 500 level for which other
national brokers intensely compete. Within this middle market, the Retail
Brokerage Business has developed particular expertise and knowledge of the risks
facing a number of industry sectors including health care, real estate, retail,
manufacturing, churches, law firms, homes for the aged and fine arts.

 During 1997, the Retail Brokerage Business serviced approximately 10,000
insureds. The Retail Brokerage Business is compensated for its services
primarily in the form of commissions paid by insurance companies. The commission
is usually a percentage of the premium paid by the insured. Commission rates
depend upon the type of insurance, the particular insurance company, and the
role in which the Retail Brokerage Business acts. In some cases a commission is
shared with other agents or brokers who have acted jointly with the Retail
Brokerage Business in connection with the transaction. The Retail Brokerage
Business may also receive from an insurance company a contingent



 4



commission that is generally based on the profitability and volume 
placed with it by the Retail Brokerage Business over a given period of time. The
Retail Brokerage Business may also receive fees in connection with consulting
services relating to the marketing of insurance.

 Program Brokerage Corporation or "PBC" (the "Program Brokerage Business")
is a subsidiary of the Company and operates a wholesale insurance brokerage
business which offers retail insurance agents and brokers innovative solutions
to the twin insurance problems of price and availability of coverage. It
accomplishes this by organizing pools of similar risks into specially designed
Alternative Risk Transfer ("A.R.T.") programs for affinity groups (the
"Programs").

 The Program Brokerage Business is one of the leaders in the application of
purchasing groups in the commercial insurance market. Approximately two-thirds
of premium volume is generated by approximately 400 unrelated retail
insurance agents and brokers serving approximately 4,300 insureds during 1997.
The remaining one-third is derived from the Retail Brokerage Business.
Approximately one-half of premium volume is directly or indirectly placed
with two affiliates, Old Lyme Insurance Company of Rhode Island, Inc. ("OLRI")
and Old Lyme Insurance Company, Ltd. (Bermuda) ("OLB").

Property and Casualty Companies Operations

 The Company conducts its property and casualty underwriting business
through two insurance company subsidiaries (the "Insurance Companies"), OLRI and
OLB. OLRI is a property and casualty insurance company licensed in Rhode Island
and eligible as a surplus lines insurer in New York and New Jersey. OLB is a
property and casualty insurance company organized and licensed under the laws of
Bermuda. In states where the Insurance Companies are not admitted insurers or
surplus lines insurers, the Insurance Companies underwrite risks through various
reinsurance agreements.

 The Insurance Companies underwrite property risks (loss or physical damage
to property) and OLRI underwrites casualty risks (legal liability for personal
injury or damaged property of others) for insureds in the United States.
Insurance is sold principally through the Programs marketed by PBC which insure
various types es and properties that have similar risk
characteristics, such as apartments, condominiums, cooperatives, restaurants,
building maintenance companies, retail stores, funeral homes and pharmacies,
among others.

 The Insurance Companies' strategy is to underwrite only the first "layer"
of the property and casualty insurance provided under the Programs. Exposure to
individual insureds on individual losses is thereby generally limited to between
$1,000 and $25,000 per claim (inclusive of allocated loss expenses), depending
on the Program. Under the Programs, the Insurance Companies' policies are sold
in conjunction with policies issued by unaffiliated Program insurers that
provide coverage for losses above the first layer of



 5



risk underwritten by the Insurance Companies. In addition, the Insurance
Companies have issued policies on a selected basis with limits up to $1,000,000,
retaining the first $50,000 of exposure and reinsuring the remaining limits with
an unaffiliated reinsurer, National Reinsurance Corporation (A.M. Best Company
("A.M.Best"), a major rating agency for insurers, rating of A+).

 The Property and Casualty Companies Operations includes Claims
Administration Corporation ("CAC") a subsidiary of the Company which is
responsible for the administration of a large majority of the claims submitted
to the Insurance Companies. The administration of claims includes investigation,
engagement of legal counsel, approval of settlements and the making of payments
to, or on behalf of insureds. CAC also provide claims administration service to
the unaffiliated Program insurers for a fee.

 CAC is party to an agreement with an unaffiliated company, whereby it
agrees to acquire certain retail service warranty contract obligations for a
fee. CAC earns approximately 17% of its revenue pursuant to this agreement.

History of the Company

1952 to 1993

 Prior to the initial public offering ("IPO") of common stock in
August 1993, the Retail Brokerage Companies, PBC, the Insurance Companies and
CAC were part of a single combined insurance and brokerage business owned by
Kaye International L.P. ("KILP") and certain individuals. KILP, via several
stock and asset acquisitions and mergers, traces its origins back to 1952. Prior
to the IPO, KILP developed the concept of the "deductible" primary "layer" of
insurance coverage administered through Programs. This business was conducted
through the Insurance Companies. In August 1993, after years of successful
growth, the Insurance Companies, PBC and CAC were organized under Holding, of
which approximately 33% was sold to the public.

 At the time of the IPO, management of Holding believed that its historical
marketing efforts and ability to expand its business were hampered by its small
capital base and its lack of a letter rating from A.M. Best. Approximately
$13,000,000 of the proceeds of the IPO were contributed to OLRI to increase its
capital and surplus to permit it to increase its underwriting capabilities,
(ii) obtain a letter rating from A.M. Best, and (iii) enable OLRI to meet
certain regulatory capital and surplus requirements. As a result of the proceeds
being contributed, OLRI significantly increased its underwriting capacity. This
enabled it to ultimately obtain an A.M. Best rating of A-(Excellent) (which it
currently maintains) and meet all regulatory capital and surplus requirements.

 The business of OLRI however depends on the creation of new Programs and
the addition of insureds into existing Programs. OLRI relies on PBC to develop
new Programs. PBC is also most important and significant producing
broker, historically producing almost all of the Insurance Companies' net
premiums earned. 



 6



1994

 In 1994, the Retail Brokerage Business completed the integration of its
1992 acquisition of Amalgamated Programs Corporation and related entities
("Amalgamated") and continued to downsize to adjust to the continuing "soft
market" in property and casualty premium rates. At the time, the officers of the
general partners of KILP (which included members of Board of
Directors) concluded that the combination of Holding and the Retail Brokerage
Business would be advantageous for both OLRI and KILP. This conclusion was based
on three factors: improved operating results derived from the Amalgamated
integration and "soft market" downsizing, the improved outlook for the
Retail Brokerage Business and the fact that the Retail Brokerage Business
accounted for approximately one-half of premium volume.

 In evaluating the combination, Board of Directors also considered
the fact that the market for common stock following the IPO was
relatively illiquid. The Board believed that the combination of the Retail
Brokerage Business with Holding would increase the size of Holding, make it a
more financially diverse company and potentially attract a broader spectrum of
investors.

1995

 The combination ("Transaction") was effective October 2, 1995 and was
accounted for as a transfer and exchange between companies under common control.
Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the Retail Brokerage Business were
combined with those of Holding at their historical cost in a manner similar to a
"pooling of interests", (See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements of
the Company). The combination was accomplished as follows:

 1. Holding transferred to then recently formed Kaye Holding Corp. ("KHC")
all of the outstanding stock of the Insurance Companies and its two other
subsidiaries, PBC and CAC and its other assets in exchange for 82,400 shares
of KHC common stock, representing 82.4% of the total outstanding KHC common
stock, and (ii) the assumption by KHC of certain of liabilities.

 2. KILP transferred all of its interest in the limited partnerships
conducting the Retail Brokerage Business (the "Retail Partnerships") and certain
related assets to KHC in exchange for 17,200 shares of KHC common stock,
representing 17.2% of the total outstanding KHC common stock, and (ii) the
assumption by KHC of certain KILP liabilities.

 3. Certain individuals transferred to KHC all of their interests in the
corporate general partners of the Retail Partnerships (the "Retail Brokerage
Companies") in exchange for 400 shares of KHC common stock, representing 0.4% of
the total outstanding KHC common stock.



 7



 4. KHC contributed its interests in the Retail Partnerships to the Retail
Brokerage Companies thereby causing the dissolution of the Retail Partnerships.
As a result, the Retail Brokerage Companies, as a group, own all of the assets
and are subject to all of the liabilities, of the Retail Brokerage Business.

1997

 On December 30, 1997, stockholders of the Company approved a restructuring
that merged KHC into the Company. This eliminated the minority interest in KHC
held by KILP and simplified the corporate structure and reporting of the
Company.

The chart below reflects the current structure of the Company:



 KILP,
related entity Public
 and
 individuals
 72.9% 27.1%
 KAYE GROUP INC.
 
 100.0% 100.0%
 Insurance Brokerage Companies: Property and Casualty Companies: 
 Kaye Insurance Associates, Inc. Old Lyme Insurance Company of Rhode 
 Kaye Corporation of Connecticut Island, Inc. 
 Kaye-Western Insurance & Risk Old Lyme Insurance Company, Ltd. and
 Services, Inc. Park Brokerage, Ltd. 
 Kaye Services Corp. Claims Administration Corporation 
 Program Brokerage Corporation 
 

 8



Affinity Group Marketing

 Affinity group marketing (including A.R.T. programs) contributes 67% of the
 1997 consolidated revenues, excluding investment income.

Retail Brokerage Operations

 The Retail Brokerage Business generally services middle market entities
just below the Fortune 500 level. Within this market, it has developed
particular expertise and knowledge of the risks facing a number of industry
sectors. Based on this expertise and knowledge, the Retail Brokerage Business
has established programs for hospitals and physicians, churches, law firms,
mental health practitioners, homes for the aged and fine arts, among others.

 Approximately 38% of the Retail Brokerage Business' 1997 revenues relate to
such affinity groups. Of this 38%, approximately 90% of the related premium
volume is placed with unrelated insurance markets. The remaining 10% is placed
with PBC. (This 10% represents approximately one-third of premium volume.)
No premiums are placed with the Insurance Companies directly by the Retail
Brokerage Business.

PBC and Insurance Companies Operations

 PBC designs A.R.T. programs for affinity groups and markets via a network
of retail insurance brokers, including the Retail Brokerage Companies. 
distribution network includes approximately 400 unrelated retail agents and
brokers. These unrelated agents and brokers account for two-thirds of 
premium volume. The Insurance Companies underwrite a portion of the Programs and
only underwrite programs designed by PBC.

 During the past five years the original 1:2 ratio of insurance premiums
produced by unrelated retail brokers to insurance premiums produced by the
Retail Brokerage Companies (the "Production Ratio"), respectively, has reversed.
But production from both sources has grown. total premium volume for 1997
of $54,100,000 has increased 28% since 1995. It is expected that the Production
Ratio will approach 3:1 during 1998, consistent with strategy of growing
the unrelated retail agents and broker distribution network.

 Once PBC establishes an A.R.T. program, it acts as the placing broker with
respect to insurance under the Programs. In such a role, PBC is a party to
agreements with various unaffiliated insurers as well as the Insurance
Companies.

 PBC receives commissions from the Insurance Companies and the unaffiliated
Program insurers. Pursuant to subbrokerage agreements, PBC pays commissions to
retail brokers based upon all business produced by such agents and brokers
(including business placed by PBC with the unaffiliated Program insurers).



 9



 The Insurance Companies' strategy in most cases is to underwrite only the
first "layer" per claim (the deductible range) (inclusive of allocated loss
expenses) of the property and casualty insurance provided under the programs
developed by PBC. This limits its exposure to individual insureds on individual
losses to the deductible range depending on the Program. Under the Programs, the
Insurance Companies' policies are sold in conjunction with policies issued by
unaffiliated insurers that provide coverage for losses above the first "layer"
of risk underwritten by the Insurance Companies. The Insurance Companies believe
that their rates for the first "layer" of risk, when combined with the rates of
such other unrelated insurers for the coverage above such layer, are generally
competitive with the rates that other insurance companies would charge to
provide comparable insurance coverage.

 The Insurance Companies currently participate in 14 A.R.T programs. The
three major programs are as follows:

 1. The Residential Real Estate Program, started in 1990, provides property
and casualty insurance for residential real estate including rental apartments,
cooperatives, and condominiums. Policies protect the owner from property losses
and casualty claims, such as claims brought by a tenant or member of the public
injured on the premises. This program is offered principally in the New York
City area and has approximately 1,000 insureds.

 2. The Restaurant Program, started in 1985, insures restaurants against
casualty claims (most typically brought by an injured restaurant patron) and
property losses. Many of the restaurants that participate in this Program are
"white tablecloth" restaurants. The Restaurant Program has approximately 900
insureds.

 3. The Real Estate Umbrella Program insures residential and commercial real
estate owners against certain types of casualty losses. Insureds are provided
with an extra level of protection in conjunction with a standard umbrella
policy. Coverage is provided for losses that are included within the broad terms
of the policy, but are excluded under the general casualty policy. This Program
also provides high umbrella casualty limits primarily provided by unrelated
Program insurance companies to individual real estate owners. OLRI has a maximum
exposure of $10,000 per claim. The Real Estate Umbrella Program has
approximately 1,400 insureds.

 The other Programs include the Comprehensive Office Program, the Retail
Stores Liability Program, the Catalog Showroom Property Program, the Building
Maintenance Contractors Program, the Contractors Umbrella Program, the Drug
Store Program, the Funeral Directors Program, the Bars, Restaurants and Taverns
Program, the New England Restaurant Program, the Waste Haulers Program, and the
Home Owner Program. The other Programs have approximately 1,000 insureds.



 10



 The Home Owner Program provides various types of property insurance to a
group of affiliated home owners. Limits for certain coverage offered by OLRI
under this program are as high as $100,000. This program accounted for
approximately 2% of net premiums earned in 1997.

 The Restaurant Program, Residential Real Estate Program and Real Estate
Umbrella Program accounted for approximately 87% of the net premiums earned by
the Insurance Companies in 1997. The following table sets forth the percentage
of net premiums earned attributable to the programs and all oth
during the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

 Net Premiums Earned
 Years Ended December 31,
 1997 1996 1995
 ---- ---- ----
Residential Real Estate 46% 49% 40%
Restaurant Program 25% 24% 32%
Real Estate Umbrella Program 16% 14% 15%
Other 13% 13% 13%
 --- --- ---
 100% 100% 100%
 === === === 

Acquisitions

 During 1997, the Company acquired certain assets and liabilities of Western
Insurance Associates, Inc. ("Western"). This acquisition was accounted for as a
purchase and achieved critical mass for the brokerage operations located in
Pasadena, California. In addition, this acquisition was synergistic as 
competitive advantage is in the production from affinity groups,
including churches and homes for the aged.

 The Company believes that the effect of past, present and future
acquisitions will be to expand its insurance program services to affinity
groups, thus providing earnings to all operations.

 The Company is considering and intends to consider from time to time
additional acquisitions and divestitures on terms it deems consistent with its
strategies. The Company at this time is engaged in preliminary discussions with
a number of candidates for possible future acquisitions but has not signed
contracts or agreements in principle to make additional acquisitions. No
assurances can be given that any additional acquisitions or divestitures will be
completed, or if completed, will be advantageous to the Company.



 11



Seasonality

 The Brokerage Operations' revenues vary significantly from quarter to
quarter as a result of the timing of policy renewals and their related billings.
This is due to the revenue recognition method for brokerage commissions which
requires that a full commissions be recognized immediately upon the
billing date of the business. However, premium revenues of the Insurance
Companies are recognized ratably over the term of the related policies. As a
result, there is little variation from quarter to quarter in the Property and
Casualty Companies Operations revenues.

 Consolidated revenues by quarter for 1997, 1996 and 1995 were earned as
follows. Amounts shown represent a percentage of the related full year
consolidated revenues.

 1997 1996 1995
 ---- ---- ----
 First Quarter 22% 22% 23%
 Second Quarter 23% 22% 21%
 Third Quarter 28% 28% 25%
 Fourth Quarter 27% 28% 31%

Competition

 The Company is the 17th largest insurance broker in the United States
according to Insurance", a leading insurance industry publication. It
operates in a highly competitive industry and faces competition from regional
brokers, regional offices of worldwide brokers and insurers.

 The insurance brokerage business is highly competitive. The Company
believes that it is well positioned to compete within its designated market
because of the expertise and knowledge it has developed in servicing middle
market companies, the Programs it has developed and the proprietary database of
affinity group underwriting and claims information it has developed.

 Many insurance companies which compete with OLRI have a higher A.M. Best
- -rating (OLRI is rated A-(Excellent)), and are larger and have greater
financial, marketing and management resources than the Insurance Companies.
Competition is based on many factors, including perceived overall financial
strength of the insurer, premiums charged, policy terms and conditions, services
offered, reputation and experience. Due to its size, management and operational
flexibility, the Company can respond quickly to, and take advantage of, changing
circumstances encountered in the marketplace.


 12



 In the event that admitted insurers (including the unaffiliated Program
insurers) begin to offer the coverage in New York which the Company offers as a
surplus lines insurer, it is possible that OLRI may be unable to receive
placements on a surplus lines basis, because brokers are generally required
first to obtain three "declinations" from admitted carriers before they can
offer the business to a surplus lines underwriter. In addition, in soft
insurance markets, other insurance companies may be more willing to offer low
deductibles which cover the first layer of risk at prices competitive with or
lower than those under the Programs.

Ceded Reinsurance

 OLRI has from time to time obtained reinsurance for portions of, or
specific risks under, the first layer of risks underwritten by OLRI. Such
reinsurance is not and has not been material to OLRI. Reinsurance has been
placed with National Reinsurance Corporation, Transatlantic Reinsurance Company
and USF Reinsurance Company, which are rated A or better by A.M. Best . However,
if reinsurance should become more widely available at economical prices, OLRI
may increase the amount of reinsurance it purchases (see Note 13 to the
consolidated financial statements of the Company).

Losses and Loss Expenses

 The Insurance Companies are directly liable for losses and loss expense
payments under the terms of insurance policies that they write, and under the
reinsurance agreements to which they are party. In many cases, several years may
elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to
the Insurance Companies and the Insurance Companies payment of that loss. The
Insurance Companies reflect their liability for the ultimate payment of all
incurred losses and loss expenses by establishing loss and loss expense
reserves, which are balance sheet liabilities representing estimates of future
amounts needed to pay claims and related expenses with respect to insured events
that have occurred.

 When a claim involving a probable loss is reported, the Insurance Companies
establish a loss reserve for the estimated amount of the Insurance Companies'
ultimate loss and loss expense payments. The estimate reflects an informed
judgment based on established reserving practices and the experience and
knowledge of claims examiners regarding the nature and value of the claim,
as well as the estimated expense of settling the claim, including legal and
other fees, and general expenses of administering the claims adjustment process.
The Insurance Companies also establish reserves on an aggregate basis to provide
for losses incurred but not reported ("IBNR reserves"), as well as future
developments on losses reported to the Insurance Companies. The amount of an
 incurred losses in a given period is determined by adding losses and
loss expenses paid during the period to case loss and loss expense reserves and
IBNR reserves (collectively "loss reserves") at the end of the period, and then
subtracting loss reserves existing at the beginning of the period.



 13



 As part of the reserving process, historical data is reviewed and
consideration is given to the anticipated effect of various factors, including
anticipated legal developments, changes in social attitudes, inflation and
economic conditions. Reserve amounts are necessarily based on 
estimates, and as other data becomes available and is reviewed, these estimates
are revised, resulting in increases or decreases to existing reserves.

 OLRI receives claims related to lead paint exposures it insures under
various Residential Real Estate Programs. There are uncertainties in estimating
the amount of reserves due to factors including: difficulty in properly
allocating responsibility and/or liability for the lead paint exposure; changes
in the underlying laws and the judicial interpretation of those laws; questions
regarding the interpretation and application of insurance and reinsurance
coverage. OLRI has reserves established for these claims on a case basis and an
incurred but not reported basis. The reserves provided are established based on
 estimate of ultimate liabilities. However, due to the nature of the
exposures, such reserves cannot be, and are not established using standard
actuarial techniques.

 To further review the adequacy of the reserves, the Insurance Companies
engage independent actuarial consultants to perform annual case and ultimate
loss reserve analysis.

 The following table sets forth a reconciliation of the change in the
reserves for outstanding losses and loss expenses, including paid losses and
loss expenses, for each year in the three year period ended December 31, 1997.

 Years Ended December 31,
 1997 1996 1995
 ---- ---- ----
 (in thousands)

Balance at January 1, $ 15,227 $ 12,671 $ 14,118
 Less reinsurance recoverables (882)
 Net balance 14,345 12,671 14,118
 
Incurred related to:
 Current year 8,824 6,621 4,986
 Prior year (108) 415 (136)
 Total incurred 8,716 7,036 4,850
 
Paid related to:
 Current year 1,802 1,832 2,138
 Prior year 4,944 3,530 4,159
 Total paid 6,746 5,362 6,297
 
Net balance at December 31, 16,315 14,345 12,671
 Plus reinsurance recoverables 2,811 882
 
 Balance $ 19,126 $ 15,227 $ 12,671
 


 14



 The following table presents the development of unpaid losses and loss
expense reserves for the past ten years for the Insurance Companies. During the
ten year period covered by this table, OLB changed its fiscal year-end from July
31 to April 30 and then to December 31 for the year ended December 31, 1990. In
addition, Bermuda domiciled insurance companies, unlike U.S. domiciled insurers,
are not required to file calendar year loss development information with
regulatory authorities. Accordingly, the loss development information included
in the following table with respect to OLB prior to 1992, reflects development
data converted from the policy year loss development data maintained by OLB
through the use of mathematical models. The top line of the table shows the
estimated reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at the balance sheet date
for each of the indicated years. These figures represent the estimated amount of
unpaid losses and loss expenses for claims arising in the current and all prior
years that were unpaid at the balance sheet date, including losses that had been
incurred but not yet reported. The table also shows the re-estimated amount of
the previously recorded reserve based on experience as of the end of each
succeeding year. The estimate changes as more information becomes available,
principally about the frequency of claims for individual years. The table is
presented net of reinsurance which is immaterial for all years presented except
for 1997. The reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses at December 31, 1997 is
$2,811,000.



 15



KAYE GROUP INC.
LOSS DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE
(In thousands)



 Year Ended 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
 ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
 
Reserves for outstanding
 losses and loss expenses
 on December 31, $4,360 $6,866 $8,418 $12,555 $16,244 $18,444 $17,929 $14,118 $12,672 $15,227 $19,126


Cumulative amount paid as of:

 One year later $1,251 $2,018 $2,505 $4,374 $5,569 $6,379 $6,965 $4,161 $3,697 $4,943
 Two years later 2,351 3,513 5,266 7,545 9,258 11,704 10,002 6,802 6,882
 Three years later 2,907 5,208 7,041 9,245 12,695 13,833 12,278 9,455
 Four years later 3,662 6,113 7,600 11,378 13,813 14,973 14,120
 Five years later 4,090 6,269 8,539 11,705 14,146 15,784
 Six years later 4,112 6,881 8,660 11,768 14,385
 Seven years later 4,204 6,892 8,681 11,877
 Eight years later 4,204 6,895 8,701
 Nine years later 4,204 6,903
 Ten years later 4,204


Re-estimated liability as of:

 One year later $3,875 $6,891 $9,127 $13,665 $16,117 $18,140 $17,856 $14,254 $12,257 $15,494
 Two years later 4,483 6,692 9,767 13,003 15,182 18,511 18,184 13,487 $12,454
 Three years later 4,726 7,343 9,288 11,850 15,609 18,636 16,552 13,990
 Four years later 4,850 7,228 9,002 12,410 15,462 18,177 18,157
 Five years later 4,703 7,120 9,060 12,468 15,312 18,252
 Six years later 4,507 7,140 8,973 12,224 14,982
 Seven years later 4,357 7,063 8,893 12,121
 Eight years later 4,312 6,964 8,847
 Nine years later 4,204 7,012
 Ten years later 4,204


Cumulative
Redundancy (Deficiency): $156 ($146) ($429) $434 $1,262 $192 ($228) $128 $218 ($267)
 




 16



Regulation

 The Company is subject to a substantial degree of regulation that is
designed to protect the interests of insurance policyholders. As a Rhode Island
property and casualty insurance company, OLRI is subject to the primary
regulatory oversight of the Rhode Island Department Regulation
through its Insurance Division. On March 28, 1996, the Division advised the
Company that it is reviewing the treatment of certain reinsurance arrangements
between OLRI and OLB in 1995 Statutory Annual Statement filed with the
Division. The Company believes that it treated this arrangement appropriately in
its annual statement and it does not believe that there will be any material
modifications to surplus at December 31, 1995.

 As a Bermuda property and casualty insurance company, OLB is subject to
regulation of the primary regulatory body of Bermuda. Such regulation relates
to, among other things, authorized lines , capital and surplus
requirements and general standards of solvency, the filing of annual and other
financial reports prepared on the basis of statutory accounting practices, the
filing and form of actuarial reports, the establishment and maintenance of
reserves for unearned premiums, losses and loss expenses, underwriting
limitations, investment parameters, transactions with affiliates, dividend
limitations, changes in control and a variety of other financial and
non-financial matters.

 The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has developed
risk-based capital formulas to be applied to all domestic insurance companies.
These formulas calculate a minimum required statutory net worth, based on the
underwriting, investment and oth risks inherent in an insurance
 operations. Any insurance company that does not meet threshold
risk-based capital levels ultimately will be subject to statutory receivership
proceedings. The statutory net worth of OLRI is adequate in light of its current
and anticipated future business and has met its risk-based capital and surplus
requirements at December 31, 1997. The minimum risk-based capital requirement
for OLRI, as of December 31, 1997 was $6,804,698 and the Company exceeded that
threshold by $16,857,689.

Employees

 As of December 31, 1997, the Company had 347 employees. The Company is not
unionized. The Company believes that its employee relationships are
satisfactory.



 17



YEAR 1999, CIK 1044566, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
 CNA Surety Corporation ("CNA Surety" or "Company") is an insurance holding
company in the United States formed through the September 30, 1997 combination
of the surety business of CNA Financial Corporation with Capsure Holdings
Corp. ("Capsure") insurance subsidiaries. CNA Surety is currently one of the
largest surety providers in the United States with approximately an 8.9% market
share. Its wide selection of products range from very small commercial bonds to
large contract bonds.
 
FORMATION OF CNA SURETY AND MERGER
 
 In December 1996, CNA Financial Corporation ("CNAF") and Capsure agreed to
merge (the "Merger") the surety business of CNAF with insurance
subsidiaries, Western Surety Company ("Western Surety") and Universal Surety of
America ("USA"), into a newly-formed holding company, CNA Surety Corporation.
CNAF, through its operating subsidiaries, writes multiple lines of property and
casualty insurance, including surety business that is reinsured by Western
Surety. CNAF owns approximately 61% of the outstanding common stock of CNA
Surety. Loews Corporation owns approximately 85% of the outstanding common stock
of CNAF. The principal operating subsidiaries of CNAF that wrote the surety line
 for their own account prior to the Merger were Continental Casualty
Company and its property and casualty affiliates (collectively, "CCC") and The
Continental Insurance Company and its property and casualty affiliates
(collectively, "CIC"). CIC was acquired by CNAF on May 10, 1995. The combined
surety operations of CCC and CIC are referred to herein as CCC Surety Operations
("Predecessor").
 
 Pursuant to a reorganization agreement, CCC Surety Operations and Capsure
merged their respective operations at the close on September 30,
1997 ("Merger Date"). CNAF, through its property and casualty subsidiaries, CCC
and CIC, contributed $52.25 million of capital to CNA Surety. Through
reinsurance agreements, CCC and CIC ceded to Western Surety all of their net
unearned premiums and loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, as of the
Merger Date, and will cede to Western Surety all surety business written or
renewed by CCC and CIC for a period of five years thereafter. Further, CCC and
CIC have agreed to assume the obligation for any adverse development on recorded
reserves for CCC Surety Operations as of the Merger Date, to limit the loss
ratio on certain defined business written by CNA Surety through December 31,
2000, and to provide certain additional excess of loss reinsurance. CCC also
agreed to provide certain administrative services at specified rates, subject to
inflationary increases, for three years after the Merger, if CNA Surety chooses
to purchase such services.
 
DESCRIPTION 
 
 CNA insurance subsidiaries write surety and fidelity bonds in all
50 states through a combined network of approximately 37,000 independent
agencies. CNA principal insurance subsidiaries are Western Surety and
USA. Western Surety writes, on a direct basis or as business assumed from CCC
and CIC, small fidelity and noncontract surety bonds, referred to as commercial
bonds; small, medium and large contract bonds; international surety and credit
insurance; and errors and omissions ("E&O") liability insurance, as a licensed
insurer in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Western 
affiliated company, Surety Bonding Company of America ("SBCA"), writes
principally small commercial surety business and is licensed in 23 states. USA
specializes in the underwriting of small contract and commercial surety bonds.
USA is licensed in 43 states and the District of Columbia with most of its
business generated in Texas.
 
 The strategy is to continue the underwriting focus of each of its
operating units and to achieve growth from cross-marketing opportunities and
building upon the established traditions of high-quality service and long-term
relationships.
 
 3
 4
 
A.M. BEST RATINGS
 
 Western Surety and USA are currently rated A+ (Superior) and A (Excellent),
respectively, by A.M. Best Company, Inc. ("A.M. Best"). Through intercompany
reinsurance and related agreements, CNA customers will continue to have
access to broader underwriting capacity. CCC is currently rated A by A.M.
Best. A.M. letter ratings range from A++ (Superior) to D (Poor) with A++
being highest. An A+ (Superior) rating is assigned to those companies which A.M.
Best believes have achieved superior overall performance when compared to the
norms of the property and casualty insurance industry. A+ (Superior) rated
insurers have been shown to be among the strongest in ability to meet
policyholder and other contractual obligations. A rating of A (Excellent) is
assigned to those companies which A.M. Best believes have achieved excellent
overall performance when compared to the norms of the property and casualty
insurance industry and generally have demonstrated a strong ability to meet
their respective policyholder and other contractual obligations.
 
PRODUCT INFORMATION
 
 According to the Surety Association of America ("SAA") industry estimates,
approximately 80% of the $2.7 billion United States surety market is represented
by bonds required by federal statutes, state laws, and local ordinances. These
bonding requirements range from federal construction projects, where the
contractor is required to post performance and payment bonds which guarantee
performance of contracts to the government as well as payment of bills to
subcontractors and suppliers, to license and permit bonds which guarantee
compliance with legal requirements for business operations.
 
 PRODUCTS AND POLICIES
 
 Unlike a standard, two-party insurance policy, surety bonds are three-party
agreements in which the issuer of the bond (the surety) joins with a second
party (the principal) in guaranteeing to a third party (the owner/obligee) the
fulfillment of some obligation on the part of the principal. The surety is the
party who guarantees fulfillment of the obligation to the obligee.
In addition, sureties are generally entitled to recover from the principal any
losses and expenses paid to third parties. The responsibility is to
evaluate the risk and determine if the principal meets the underwriting
requirements for the bond. Accordingly, surety bond premiums primarily reflect
the type and class of risk and related costs associated with both processing the
bond transaction and investigating the applicant including, if necessary, an
analysis of the creditworthiness and ability to perform.
 
 The surety business is comprised of contract surety business and commercial
surety business, although the products comprising each are sold through the same
distribution system.
 
 Contract bond guarantee obligations include the following:
 
 Bid bonds: used by contractors submitting proposals on potential
 contracts.
 
 Performance bonds: guarantee to the owner the performance of the
 obligations according to the terms and conditions of the
 contract.
 
 Payment bonds: guarantee payment of the obligations under
 the contract for labor, subcontractors, and materials supplied to the
 project. Payment bonds are utilized in public projects where liens are not
 permitted.
 
 Other examples of contract bonds are completion, maintenance and
 supply bonds.
 
 Commercial surety business is comprised of bonds covering obligations
 typically required by law or regulation, such as the following:
 
 License and Permit bonds: required by statutes or ordinances for a
 number of purposes including guaranteeing the payment of certain taxes and
 fees and providing consumer protection as a condition to granting licenses
 related to selling real estate or motor vehicles and contracting services.
 
 4
 5
 
 Judicial and Fiduciary bonds: required by statutes, courts or legal
 documents for the protection of those on whose behalf a fiduciary acts.
 Examples of such fiduciaries include executors and administrators of
 estates, and guardians of minors and incompetents.
 
 Public Official bonds: required by statutes and ordinances to
 guarantee the lawful and faithful performance of the duties of office by
 public officials.
 
 Fidelity bonds: cover losses arising from employee dishonesty.
 Examples of purchasers of fidelity bonds are law firms, insurance agencies
 and janitorial service companies.
 
 In 1997, CNA Surety expanded into the international surety and credit
insurance market through a 50% U.S. dollar denominated quota share treaty with
an affiliate of CCC, CNA Reinsurance Company Limited (London). Western Surety
assumed $10.0 million and $10.1 million of premium through this relationship in
1998 and 1997, respectively. The assumed business is predominately European
based risks, approximately 86% of which is credit insurance and 14% is surety
and fidelity. Credit insurance provides protection against abnormal losses from
unpaid accounts receivable.
 
 CNA Surety also writes E&O policies through its subsidiary Western Surety
for three classes of insureds: notaries public, tax preparers and insurance
agents and brokers. The notary public E&O policy is marketed as a companion
product to the notary public bond and the tax preparer E&O policy is marketed to
small tax return preparation firms. Western Surety introduced an insurance
agents' and brokers' E&O insurance product in 1994 and expanded this product to
41 states as of December 31, 1998.
 
 The following tables set forth, for each principal class of bonds, gross
written premiums, net written premiums and number of bonds and policies in force
and the respective percentages of the total for the past three years. All tables
in this section contain information reflecting the pro forma combined operations
of CNA Surety, including Western Surety and USA results prior to the Merger
Date. As such, the financial information is not necessarily indicative of the
financial results that would have occurred under the ownership and management of
CNA Surety (amounts in thousands, except average bond amounts):
 


 GROSS WRITTEN PREMIUMS
 PRO FORMA
 % OF % OF % OF
 1998 TOTAL 1997 TOTAL 1996 TOTAL
 ---- ---- ---- 
Contract $132,242 47.5% $123,014 46.2% $124,477 49.6%
Commercial:
 License and permit 66,394 23.9 64,614 24.3 61,163 24.3
 Judicial and fiduciary 26,557 9.5 26,555 10.0 25,512 10.1
 Public official 16,430 5.9 16,705 6.3 15,830 6.3
 International and other 11,665 4.2 11,788 4.4 1,907 0.8
 Total commercial 121,046 43.5 119,662 45.0 104,412 41.5
 Fidelity 17,113 6.2 16,760 6.2 16,123 6.4
E&O policies and other 7,823 2.8 6,982 2.6 6,402 2.5
 $278,224 100.0% $266,418 100.0% $251,414 100.0%
 
 
 5
 6
 


 NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS
 PRO FORMA
 % OF % OF % OF
 1998 TOTAL 1997 TOTAL 1996 TOTAL
 ---- ---- ---- 
Contract $127,114 47.0% $118,138 45.9% $118,268 50.3%
Commercial 120,638 44.6 117,162 45.6 96,421 41.0
Fidelity 17,096 6.3 16,748 6.5 16,076 6.8
E&O policies and other 5,754 2.1 5,019 2.0 4,421 1.9
 $270,602 100.0% $257,067 100.0% $235,186 100.0%
 
 


 DOMESTIC BOND/POLICIES IN FORCE
 PRO FORMA
 % OF % OF % OF
 1998 TOTAL 1997 TOTAL 1996 TOTAL
 ---- ---- ---- 
Contract 200 11.1% 30 1.7% 26 1.5%
Commercial 1,276 70.7 1,471 82.0 1,466 83.9
Fidelity 98 5.4 99 5.5 98 5.6
E&O policies and other 232 12.8 193 10.8 157 9.0
 1,806 100.0% 1,793 100.0% 1,747 100.0%
 Average domestic bond
 penalty/policy limit $ 29,377 $ 25,802 $ 24,883
 
 
 
 The average bond penalty is a measure of the average limit of liability
 associated with in force contract and commercial surety bonds at each
 reporting period.
 
 In 1998, the agency with which CNA Surety did the most business generated
approximately $3.0 million of gross written premiums, or 1.1% of aggregate gross
written premiums. The ten agencies which did the most business with CNA Surety
produced a total of $17.5 million or 6.3% of aggregate gross written premiums.
In addition, $46.5 million of gross written premiums were generated from
national brokers during 1998 with the largest national broker generating $14.6
million of gross written premiums.
 
MARKETING
 
 The Company principally markets its products in all 50 states, as well as
the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Its products are marketed primarily
through independent producers, including multi-line agents and brokers such as
surety specialists, many of whom are members of the National Association of
Surety Bond Producers. CNA Surety enjoys broad national distribution of its
products, which are marketed through approximately 37,000 of the approximately
44,000 independent property and casualty insurance agencies in the United
States. In addition, the Company employs 58 full-time salaried marketing
representatives to continually service its vast producer network. Relationships
with these independent producers are maintained through the 47 local
branch offices.
 
 6
 7
 
 The following table sets forth the distribution of the domestic business of
CNA Surety, by state based upon gross written premiums in each of the last three
years:
 


 YEARS ENDED
 DECEMBER 31,
 PRO FORMA
 1998 1997 1996
 ---- ---- ----
 
Gross Written Premiums by State:
 Texas 13.1% 12.7% 13.3%
 California 7.4 7.0 7.8
 Florida 5.5 5.6 5.8
 Illinois 4.9 4.0 4.1
 New York 4.5 4.5 4.8
 Pennsylvania 3.8 3.8 3.6
 Michigan 3.2 3.3 3.1
 All Other 57.6 59.1 57.5
 Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
 
 
 Contract Surety
 
 With respect to the contract surety business, the core focus for the
Company is contractors with less than $50 million in contracted work in
progress. This segment is comprised of small contractors (less than $5 million
in work in progress), medium contractors ($5-$25 million) and the lower end of
the large contractors (greater than $25 million). These small and medium
contractors, as a group, represent a significant portion of the United States
construction market. The Company has a small number of accounts with contracted
work in progress in excess of $150 million, the majority of which have been
clients of the predecessor for more than ten years. Some of these
accounts are maintained on a "co-surety" or joint insurer basis with other
sureties in order to manage aggregate exposure.
 
 The USA unit continues to focus its marketing efforts on serving
the needs of small and specialty contractors. Contract bonds underwritten by USA
are primarily contractor performance and payment bonds in amounts under $3.0
million. The Company utilizes Western diverse agency relationships and
its nationwide branch structure to expand the geographic and agency distribution
of small and specialty contract surety business.
 
 CNA Surety also participates in the non-standard contract surety market,
utilizing the federal Small Business Administration ("SBA") surety
bond guarantee programs. These programs provide that the SBA assumes 70% -- 90%
of the coverage in exchange for 10% -- 30% of the premium.
 
 Commercial Surety
 
 A large portion of the commercial surety market is comprised of small
obligations represented by licenses and permits that are routine in nature and
require minimal underwriting. Customers are focused principally on prompt and
efficient service.
 
 The Company continues to focus its marketing efforts on this small
commercial bond market through its Sioux Falls service center. In this market
segment, CNA Surety emphasizes one-day response service, easy-to-use forms and
an extensive array of commercial bond products. In addition, independent agents
are provided pre-executed bond forms, powers of attorney, and facsimile
authorizations that allow them to issue many standard bonds in their offices.
 
 While a large portion of the commercial surety market is represented by
small entities, CNA Surety also seeks to service the bonding needs of larger,
"Fortune 1000" firms, where a high level of technical and underwriting skill is
required. These larger customers are sophisticated, professional buyers of
commercial surety bonds who demand exceptional service and business expertise at
a reasonable cost. CNA Surety
 
 7
 8
 
maintains a specific underwriting staff in its Chicago home office and other
underwriting centers across the country dedicated to the "Fortune 1000" market.
 
 CNA insurance subsidiaries direct their marketing to particular
industries or classes of bonds on a broad basis. For instance, the Company
maintains programs directed at notary bonds, mortgage broker compliance bonds,
games of chance bonds (guaranteeing payment of prizes from promotional games)
and grain warehouse dealer bonds (protecting funds associated with grain
storage).
 
UNDERWRITING
 
 The underwriting philosophy of CNA Surety is disciplined, and focused on
consistent underwriting profitability. The extent and sophistication of
underwriting activity varies by type of risk. Contractor accounts and large
commercial surety customers undergo extensive credit, financial and managerial
review and analysis on a regular basis. Certain classifications of bonds, such
as fiduciary and court appeal bonds, also require more extensive underwriting.
 
 CNA Surety also targets various products in the surety and fidelity bond
market which are characterized by relatively low-risk exposure and small bond
amounts. The underwriting criteria, including the extent of bonding authority
granted to independent agents, varies depending on the class and the
type of bond. For example, relatively little underwriting information is
typically required of certain low-exposure risks such as notary bonds.
 
COMPETITION
 
 The surety and fidelity market is highly competitive. According to 1997
data from A.M. Best, the U.S. market aggregates approximately $3.6 billion in
direct written premiums, comprised of approximately $2.7 billion in surety
premiums and approximately $0.9 billion in fidelity premiums. The large
diversified insurance companies hold the largest market shares. For example, the
20 largest surety companies account for nearly 73% of the surety market. On a
pro forma basis for 1997, CNA Surety was the largest surety provider with an
8.9% market share.
 
 Primary competitors of CNA Surety are approximately 20 national, multi-line
companies participating in the surety market throughout the country. Management
believes that its principal strengths are capacity, diverse product offering,
service and accessibility and long-term relationships with agents and accounts.
While the surety industry has experienced slow premium growth, competition has
increased as a result of ten years of profitable underwriting experience. This
competition has typically manifested itself through reduced premium rates and
greater tolerance for relaxation of underwriting standards. Management believes
such competition will continue.
 
REINSURANCE
 
 The insurance subsidiaries, in the ordinary course ,
cede reinsurance to other insurance companies to limit their exposure to loss.
Reinsurance arrangements are used to limit maximum loss, provide greater
diversification of risk and minimize exposure on larger risks. Reinsurance
contracts do not ordinarily relieve the Company of its primary obligations to
claimants. Therefore, a contingent liability exists with respect to reinsurance
ceded to the extent that any reinsurer is unable to meet the obligations assumed
under reinsurance contracts. The Company only places its insurance subsidiaries'
reinsurance with qualified carriers after conducting a detailed review of the
nature of the obligation and a thorough assessment of the reinsurers' credit
qualifications and claims settlement performance and capabilities. The
reinsurance coverages and terms are tailored to the specific risk
characteristics of the underlying products of the Company.
 
 For contract and commercial surety business an excess of loss reinsurance
program is in effect. The Excess of Loss Contract provides the insurance
subsidiaries of CNA Surety with the capacity to underwrite large surety bond
exposures by providing reinsurance support from CCC. The Excess of Loss Contract
provides $75 million of coverage in excess of the $55 million of coverage
provided to the insurance subsidiaries by third party reinsurers, which is in
turn in excess of the $5 million of coverage per principal to be retained by
 
 8
 9
 
the CNA Surety insurance subsidiaries. Subsequent to the Merger Date, the
Company entered into a second excess of loss contract with CCC ("Second Excess
of Loss Contract"). The Second Excess of Loss Contract provides additional
coverage for principal losses that exceed the foregoing coverage of $75 million
per principal provided by the Excess of Loss Contract, or aggregate losses per
principal in excess of $135 million. The Excess of Loss Contracts collectively
provide coverage for losses discovered on surety bonds in force as of the Merger
Date and for losses discovered on new and renewal business written, renewed or
assumed during the term of the Excess of Loss Contracts. CCC is also obligated
to act as a joint insurer, or "co-surety," for business covered by the Excess of
Loss Contract when requested by the CNA Surety insurance subsidiaries. In
consideration for the reinsurance coverage provided by the Excess of Loss
Contracts, the insurance subsidiaries pay to CCC, on a quarterly basis, a
premium equal to 1% of the net written premiums applicable to the Excess of Loss
Contract, subject to a minimum premium of $20,000 and $5,000 per quarter under
the Excess of Loss Contract and Second Excess of Loss Contract, respectively.
The CNA Surety insurance subsidiaries paid $80,000 for all minimum quarterly
premiums due through September 30, 1998 during the period from September 30,
1997 (date of inception) through December 31, 1997. CNA Surety insurance
subsidiaries paid the remaining $20,000 in premium for 1998 for Excess of Loss
Contract and the $20,000 in minimum quarterly premiums for the Second Excess of
Loss Contract during the year ended December 31, 1998. There were no amounts due
to CCC under the Excess of Loss Contract and Second Excess of Loss Contract as
of December 31, 1998. Both Excess of Loss Contracts have been made effective
immediately following the Merger Date and continue for a period of five years
from the Merger Date. For the USA business only, the Company has per principal
reinsurance coverage of 85% of losses up to $4.9 million in excess of $100,000.
The Company limits its net retention on its insurance agents and brokers E&O
liability insurance product to 20% through a third party quota share reinsurance
agreement.
 
 At December 31, 1998, CNA largest reinsurance receivable,
including prepaid reinsurance premiums of $1.0 million, was approximately $3.4
million with a company rated A++ (Superior) by A.M. Best.
 
RESERVES FOR UNPAID LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
 
 CNA insurance subsidiaries employ generally accepted reserving
approaches in establishing the estimated liability for unpaid loss and loss
adjustment expenses that give consideration to the inherent difficulty and
variability in the estimation process. In addition, CNA Surety utilizes an
independent actuarial firm of national standing to conduct periodic reviews of
claim procedures and loss reserving practices, and annually obtains actuarial
certification as to the reasonableness of actuarial assumptions used and the
sufficiency of year-end reserves for each of its principal insurance
subsidiaries.
 
 The estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses
includes, on an undiscounted basis, estimates of the ultimate settlement
value of reported claims, incurred but not reported ("IBNR") claims, 
future expenses to be incurred in the settlement of claims and claim
recoveries, exclusive of reinsurance recoveries which are reported as an asset.
These estimates are determined based on the and surety industry loss
experience as well as consideration of current trends and conditions. The
estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is an
estimate and there is the potential that actual future loss payments will differ
significantly from initial estimates. The methods of determining such estimates
and the resulting estimated liability are regularly reviewed and updated.
Changes in the estimated liability are reflected in operating income in the year
in which such changes are determined to be needed.
 
 9
 10
 
 A table is included in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of
the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders which presents a table of the activity in
the reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses for the Company and
the Predecessor. This table highlights the impact of revisions to the estimated
liability established in prior years.
 
 The following table sets forth a reconciliation of the consolidated loss
reserves reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
("GAAP"), and the reserves reported to state insurance regulatory authorities in
accordance with statutory accounting principles ("SAP") for the year ended
December 31, 1998 (dollars in thousands):
 

 
Net reserves at end of year, GAAP basis $142,034
Ceded reinsurance, net of salvage and subrogation 7,986
 Gross reserves at end of year, GAAP basis 150,020
Estimated salvage and subrogation recoverable (gross of
 reinsurance), not anticipated under SAP 11,931
Estimated reinsurance recoverable netted against gross
 reserves for SAP (13,710)
 Gross reserves at end of year, SAP basis $148,241
 
 
 10
 11
 
 The loss reserve development table below illustrates the change over time
of reserves established for the estimated losses and loss adjustment
expenses at the end of various calendar years. The first section shows the
reserves as originally reported at the end of the stated year. The second
section shows the cumulative amounts paid as of the end of successive years with
respect to that reserve liability. The third section shows re-estimates of the
original recorded reserve as of the end of each successive year which is the
result of expanded awareness of additional facts and circumstances
that pertain to the unsettled claims. The last section compares the latest
re-estimated reserve to the reserve originally established, and indicates
whether or not the original reserve was adequate or inadequate to cover the
estimated costs of unsettled claims.
 
 The loss reserve development table is cumulative as of each December 31,
and, therefore, ending balances should not be added since the amount at the end
of each calendar year includes activity for both the current and prior years.
The loss reserve development table reflects, on a pro forma basis, the reserves
of the Predecessor and Capsure since 1988 and CIC since its acquisition in May
of 1995. Such historical development is not necessarily indicative of the
financial results that would have occurred under the ownership and management of
CNA Surety nor of future operating results.


 AS OF DECEMBER 31,
 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995
 ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
 
Net reserves for losses
 and loss adjustment
 expenses $60,959 $58,685 $69,733 $60,425 $61,998 $64,627 $70,398 $147,911
Net Paid (Cumulative)
 as of:
 One year later 11,700 7,618 13,456 16,287 17,636 12,923 12,018 42,552
 Two years later 15,221 13,540 22,330 24,295 25,854 19,671 18,149 43,179
 Three years later.... 17,823 18,033 26,835 29,857 29,495 21,990 21,229 46,782
 Four years later 20,723 20,758 31,591 31,273 30,582 23,070 22,313 --
 Five years later 22,575 22,089 32,133 31,909 30,817 23,864 -- --
 Six years later 23,271 25,441 32,352 32,354 32,150 -- -- --
 Seven years later.... 24,515 23,457 32,993 32,419 -- -- -- --
 Eight years later.... 24,529 23,849 33,033 -- -- -- -- --
 Nine years later 24,877 23,839 -- -- -- -- -- --
 Ten years later 24,858 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
Net Reserves
 Re-estimated as of:
 End of initial
 year 60,959 58,685 69,733 60,425 61,998 64,627 70,398 147,911
 One year later 49,285 53,486 50,822 58,644 58,603 54,568 51,471 132,267
 Two years later 44,495 39,131 51,330 51,511 54,585 44,749 44,135 103,466
 Three years later.... 36,635 39,978 46,439 46,826 47,911 38,972 38,829 101,745
 Four years later 37,200 34,357 42,946 42,212 42,542 28,094 38,628 --
 Five years later 32,134 31,405 40,747 39,945 33,699 30,335 -- --
 Six years later 29,816 31,777 38,131 36,164 37,188 -- -- --
 Seven years later.... 29,392 26,646 36,179 37,695 -- -- -- --
 Eight years later.... 26,831 25,464 37,853 -- -- -- -- --
 Nine years later 25,514 28,027 -- -- -- -- -- --
 Ten years later 27,842 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
 Total net (deficiency)
 redundancy $33,117 $30,658 $31,880 $22,730 $24,810 $34,292 $31,770 $ 46,166
 Cumulative redundancy
 (deficiency) as a
 percentage of
 original estimate.... 54.3% 52.2% 45.7% 37.6% 40.0% 53.1% 45.1% 31.2%
 

 AS OF DECEMBER 31,
 1996 1997 1998
 ---- ---- ----
 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
 
Net reserves for losses
 and loss adjustment
 expenses $137,064 $122,725 $142,034
Net Paid (Cumulative)
 as of:
 One year later 9,866 19,595 --
 Two years later 20,171 -- --
 Three years later.... -- -- --
 Four years later -- -- --
 Five years later -- -- --
 Six years later -- -- --
 Seven years later.... -- -- --
 Eight years later.... -- -- --
 Nine years later -- -- --
 Ten years later -- -- --
Net Reserves
 Re-estimated as of:
 End of initial
 year 137,064 122,725 142,034
 One year later 96,178 118,373 --
 Two years later 90,796 -- --
 Three years later.... -- -- --
 Four years later -- -- --
 Five years later -- -- --
 Six years later -- -- --
 Seven years later.... -- -- --
 Eight years later.... -- -- --
 Nine years later -- -- --
 Ten years later -- -- --
 Total net (deficiency)
 redundancy $ 46,268 $ 4,352 $ --
 Cumulative redundancy
 (deficiency) as a
 percentage of
 original estimate.... 33.8% 3.7% --
 
 
 11
 12
 
ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS
 
 The Company does not typically bond contractors that specialize in
hazardous environmental remediation work. The Company does however bond several
accounts that have incidental environmental exposure with respect to which the
Company provides limited bonding programs. In the commercial surety market, the
Company provides bonds to large corporations that are in the business of mining
various minerals and are obligated to post reclamation bonds that guarantee that
property which was disturbed during mining is returned to an acceptable
condition when the mining is completed. While no environmental responsibility is
overtly provided by commercial or contract bonds, some risk of environmental
exposure may exist if the surety were to assume certain rights in the completion
of a defaulted project or through salvage recovery.
 
 To date, the Company has not received any environmental claim notices nor
is management aware of any potential environmental claims.
 
REGULATION
 
 The insurance subsidiaries are subject to varying degrees of
regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they transact business
under statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers
to state insurance regulators. In general, an state of domicile has
principal responsibility for such regulation which is designed generally to
protect policyholders rather than investors and relates to matters such as the
standards of solvency which must be maintained; the licensing of insurers and
their agents; the examination of the affairs of insurance companies, including
periodic financial and market conduct examinations; the filing of annual and
other reports, prepared on a statutory basis, on the financial condition of
insurers or for other purposes; establishment and maintenance of reserves for
unearned premiums and losses; and requirements regarding numerous other matters.
Licensed or admitted insurers generally must file with the insurance regulators
of such states, or have filed on its behalf, the premium rates and bond and
policy forms used within each state. In some states, approval of such rates and
forms must be received from the insurance regulators in advance of their use.
 
 Western Surety is domiciled in South Dakota and licensed in all 50 states
and the District of Columbia. SBCA is domiciled in South Dakota and licensed in
23 states. USA is domiciled in Texas and licensed in 43 states and the District
of Columbia.
 
 Insurance regulations generally also require registration and periodic
disclosure of certain information concerning ownership, financial condition,
capital structure, general business operations and any material transactions or
agreements by or among affiliates. Such regulation also typically restricts the
ability of any one person to acquire 10% or more, either directly or indirectly,
of a stock without prior approval of the applicable insurance
regulatory authority. In addition, dividends and other distributions to
stockholders generally may be paid only out of unreserved and unrestricted
statutory earned surplus. Such distributions may be subject to prior regulatory
approval, including a review of the implications on Risk-Based Capital
requirements. A discussion of Risk-Based Capital requirements for property and
casualty insurance companies is included in both Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 14 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements of the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders.
Without prior regulatory approval in 1999, CNA insurance subsidiaries
may pay stockholder dividends of $32.7 million in the aggregate. For the year
ended December 31, 1998, CNA Surety received $6.6 million in dividends from its
insurance subsidiaries.
 
 CNA insurance subsidiaries are subject to periodic financial and
market conduct examinations. These examinations are generally performed by the
domiciliary state insurance regulatory authorities. The South Dakota Department
of Commerce and Regulation -- Division of Insurance (the "South Dakota
Department") conducted its financial and market conduct examination of Western
Surety for the five year period ended December 31, 1996. The South Dakota
Department made a finding of non-compliance with respect to the 
practices regarding return of premiums and recommended that Western Surety
change its current procedures regarding the return of premiums. The regulation
in question was subsequently amended to exclude surety products which eliminated
any non-compliance by the Company. The Texas
 
 12
 13
 
Department of Insurance conducted its last examination of financial
matters as of December 31, 1996. There were no significant issues noted which
required corrective action by any of the insurance subsidiaries.
 
 Certain states in which CNA insurance subsidiaries conduct their
business require insurers to join a guaranty association. Guaranty associations
provide protection to policyholders of insurers licensed in such states against
the insolvency of those insurers. In order to provide the associations with
funds to pay certain claims under policies issued by insolvent insurers, the
guaranty associations charge members assessments based on the amount of direct
premiums written in that state. Such assessments were not material to CNA
 results of operations in 1998.
 
 Western Surety and USA each qualifies as an acceptable surety for federal
and other public works project bonds pursuant to U.S. Department of Treasury
regulations. The underwriting limitations of Western Surety and USA, based on
each statutory surplus, are currently $12.5 million and $1.4 million,
respectively. Through intercompany reinsurance and related agreements with CCC,
CNA Surety has access to $452.2 million U.S. Treasury underwriting
limitation.
 
INVESTMENTS
 
 Insurance company investment practices must comply with insurance laws and
regulations and must also comply with certain covenants under CNA $130
million revolving credit facility. Generally, insurance laws and regulations
prescribe the nature and quality of, and set limits on, the various types of
investments which may be made by CNA insurance subsidiaries.
 
 The investment portfolios generally are managed to maximize
after-tax investment returns, while minimizing credit risks with investments
concentrated in high quality, fixed income securities. CNA portfolios
are managed to provide diversification by limiting exposures to any one issue or
issuer, and to provide liquidity by investing in the public securities markets.
The portfolios are structured to support CNA operations and consider
the expected duration of liabilities and short-term cash needs.
 
 An investment committee of CNA Board of Directors establishes
investment policy and oversees the management of each portfolio. A professional
independent investment adviser has been engaged to assist in the management of
each of the insurance subsidiaries investment portfolio pursuant to
established investment committee guidelines. The insurance subsidiaries pay an
advisory fee based on the market value of the assets under management.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
 As of December 31, 1998, the Company employed 848 persons. Since its
emergence from bankruptcy in 1986, Capsure has not experienced any work
stoppages nor has CCC Surety Operations ever experienced a work stoppage.
Management of CNA Surety believes its relations with its employees are good.
 
YEAR 1999, CIK 891166, ______________________________

Item 1. Description 

THE COMPANY--

 Universal Heights, Inc. ("UHTS" or the "Company") was originally
organized in 1990. In April 1997, the Company organized a subsidiary, Universal
Property & Casualty Insurance Company ("UPCIC"), as part of its strategy to take
advantage of what management believed to be profitable business and growth
opportunities in the marketplace. UPCIC was formed to participate in the
transfer of homeowner insurance policies from the Florida Residential Property
and Casualty Joint Underwriting Association ("JUA"). The Company currently has
various wholly-owned subsidiaries including Universal Insurance Holding Company,
U.S. Insurance Solutions, Inc., Universal Florida Insurance Agency and World
Financial Resources (Barbados) Ltd. UPCIC and Universal Risk Advisors, Inc. are
wholly-owned subsidiaries of Universal Insurance Holding Company. U.S.A.
Insurance Solutions, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of U.S. Insurance
Solutions, Inc. (The foregoing subsidiaries may be collectively referred to
herein as the "Subsidiaries").

 The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on
November 13, 1990 and its principal executive offices are located at 2875 N.E.
191st Street, Suite 400A, Miami, Florida 33180, and its telephone number is
(305) 792-4200.

INSURANCE BUSINESS--

 On October 29, 1997, the Florida Department of Insurance ("DOI")
approved application for a permit to organize as a domestic property and
casualty insurance company in the State of Florida. On December 4, 1997, UHTS
raised approximately $6.7 million in a private placement of common stock with
various institutional and other accredited investors ("Private Offering"). The
proceeds of the offering were used to meet the minimum regulatory capitalization
requirements ($5.3 million) of the DOI to obtain an insurance company license
and for general working capital purposes. UPCIC received a license to engage in
underwriting homeowners' insurance in the State of Florida on December 31, 1997.
In 1998, UPCIC began operations through the assumption of homeowner insurance
policies issued by the JUA.

JUA TAKEOUT PROGRAM

 The JUA was established in 1992 as a temporary measure to provide
insurance coverage for individuals who could not obtain coverage from private
carriers because of the impact on the private insurance market of Hurricane
Andrew in 1992. Rather than serving as a temporary source of emergency insurance
coverage as was originally intended, the JUA became a major provider of original
and renewal insurance coverage for Florida residents. In an attempt to reduce
the number of policies in the JUA, and thus the exposure of the program to
liability, the Florida legislature approved a number of initiatives to
depopulate the JUA. The Florida legislature subsequently approved, and the DOI
implemented, a Market Challenge/Takeout Bonus Program ("Takeout Program"), which
provided additional incentives to private insurance companies to acquire
policies from the JUA.

 The Takeout Program was attractive because it provided both substantial
regulatory and financial incentives to private insurer participants. On the
regulatory side, participants are exempt from assessments by the DOI for the


 2



 emergency insurance coverage programs for a period of three years. On
the financial side, Takeout Program participants receive a bonus payment based
upon the number of policies taken out of the JUA portfolio. UPCIC has received
bonus payments of approximately $2,700,000 based upon a portfolio takeout of
approximately 30,000 policies. Bonus payments must be held in escrow for three
years. After the three-year period, if certain conditions are met, including
maintaining a minimum number of policies, UPCIC will have unrestricted use of
the bonus payments. In addition, UPCIC will have investment income from the
bonus payments that will also be available at the end of the three years. These
bonus payments will not be included in the assets until receipt at the
end of the three-year period. To date, the Company has substantially complied
with requirements related to the bonus payments.

 initial business and operations have consisted of providing
property and casualty coverage through homeowners' insurance policies acquired
from the JUA. Since February 1998, UPCIC has assumed approximately 30,000
policies and is currently servicing approximately 25,000 homeowners insurance
policies covering homes and condominium units. UPCIC believes that the base of
insurance business acquired from the JUA will provide renewal premiums. If
existing policies are renewed, such premiums would represent approximately $24
million in estimated annual gross direct written premium revenues. To date, the
renewal rate of policies acquired by UPCIC is estimated to be approximately 75%.
Although there is no assurance that policy renewals will continue at this rate,
UPCIC is negotiating with insurance agents that are currently writing business
in connection with the JUA policies in an effort to solicit policy renewals.

OPERATIONS

 All marketing, underwriting, rating, policy issuance and administration
functions for UPCIC are performed by Universal Property and Casualty Management,
Inc. ("Universal Management"), an outside management company, pursuant to a
management agreement. Universal Management is a wholly-owned subsidiary of
American European Group, Inc. ("AEG"), a Delaware insurance holding company.
Universal Management and AEG both employ Joseph DeAlessandro as a XX officer
and director. Mr. DeAlessandro has over 40 years of experience in the insurance
industry having served as a XX executive with a number of insurance
companies including American International Group, Travelers Insurance Group and
its subsidiary, Gulf Insurance Company, and currently the American European
Group of Companies.

 Claims handling functions for UPCIC are administered by an independent
claims adjustment firm licensed in Florida that is nationally recognized as
experts in claims adjusting and have catastrophe response capabilities. UPCIC
retains oversight of claims administration by imposing specified limits of
claims settlement authority and by conducting regular audits of claims
practices.

 The earnings of UPCIC from policy premiums are supplemented by the
generation of investment income from investment policies adopted by the Board of
Directors of UPCIC. principal investment goals are to maintain safety
and liquidity, enhance equity values and achieve an increased rate of return
consistent with regulatory requirements.

 In an effort to further grow its insurance operations, UPCIC has begun
to solicit business actively in the open market through independent agents. In
determining appropriate guidelines for such open market policy sales, UPCIC
employs standards similar to those used in its selection of JUA policies. Also,
to improve underwriting and manage risk, the Company uses analytical tools and
data currently developed in conjunction with Risk Management Solutions (RMS). To
diversify product lines, management may consider underwriting automobile
and personal umbrella liability policies in the future. Any such program will
require DOI approval. UHTS has also formed a managing general agent ("MGA"),


 3



Universal Risk Advisors, Inc., to coordinate marketing efforts to independent
agents.

 The Company continues to develop into a vertically integrated insurance
holding company performing various aspects of insurance underwriting,
distribution and claims. Universal Risk Advisors, Inc. was incorporated in
Florida on July 2, 1998 and became licensed by the DOI on September 28, 1998 as
the wholly-owned MGA. Through the MGA, the Company will have
underwriting and claims authority for third-party insurance companies. The MGA
seeks to generate revenue through policy fee income and other administrative
fees from the marketing of as well as third party insurance products
through the distribution network. Universal Florida Insurance Agency
was incorporated in Florida on July 2, 1998 and U.S. Insurance Solutions, Inc.
was incorporated in Florida on August 4, 1998 as wholly-owned subsidiaries of
the Company, to solicit voluntary business. These two entities are the
foundation of the agency operations which will seek to generate income
from policy fees, commissions, premium financing referral fees and the marketing
of ancillary services. U.S.A. Insurance Solutions Inc., was incorporated in
Florida on December 10, 1998 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of U.S. Insurance
Solutions, Inc. to acquire the assets of an insurance agency. In addition, on
August 31, 1998 World Financial Resources (Barbados) LTD. ("WFR") was
incorporated as a subsidiary of UHTS in Barbados to participate in the
international insurance and reinsurance markets. Effective September 1, 1998,
WFR entered into an excess and surplus reinsurance arrangement with European
International Reinsurance Company Ltd, as a reinsured for catastrophic events.

 The Company markets and distributes products and services
primarily in South Florida, through a network of approximately 175 active
independent agents. The Company believes that it can be distinguished from its
competitors by providing quality service to both its agents and insureds. The
 primary product is homeowners insurance.

 The criteria for selecting policies includes the use of
specific policy forms, limitations on coverage amounts on buildings and
contents, acceptance of houses constructed only after 1960, acceptance of
policies with no frequency of claims, and required compliance with local
building codes. current portfolio includes approximately 17,000 policies
with coverage for wind risks and 8,000 policies without wind risk. The average
wind premium is approximately $1,000 and the average ex-wind premium is
approximately $800. Approximately 42% of the policies are located in Dade,
Broward and Palm counties.

NOVELTY AND SOUVENIR BUSINESS

 The Company was originally organized in 1990 to design and market
licensed novelty and souvenir products. In order to expand its product line,
during fiscal 1996, the Company acquired a private company engaged in the sale
of patented, weighted athletic gloves and also acquired substantially all the
assets of another private company engaged in the sale of pens with sports logos.

 During the fiscal year ended April 30, 1997, the Company ceased all
marketing efforts and as of April 30, 1997, discontinued its core product line.
This decision was based on the projected continued losses, inability to
consummate sales and insignificant demand for products. Accordingly, at April
30, 1997, inventories and related patents and trademarks were written down to
their estimated realizable value. As of December 31, 1997, the Company limited
its efforts to the disposition of the remaining inventories and patents and
charged any remaining sport-related assets to operations.


 4



FACTORS AFFECTING OPERATION RESULTS AND MARKET PRICE OF STOCK

 The Company and its subsidiaries operate in a rapidly changing
environment that involves a number of uncertainties, some of which are beyond
 control. This report contains in addition to historical information,
forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The words
"expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "intend," "plan," and similar
expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. The actual results could differ materially from those set
forth in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause
or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those
uncertainties discussed below as well as those discussed elsewhere in this
report.

NATURE OF THE COMPANY

 Factors affecting the sectors of the insurance industry in which the
Company operates may subject the Company to significant fluctuations in
operating results. These factors include competition, catastrophe losses and
general economic conditions including interest rate changes, as well as
legislative initiatives, the frequency of litigation, the size of judgments and
severe weather conditions. Specifically the homeowners insurance market, which
comprises the bulk of the current operations, is influenced by many
factors, including state and federal laws, market conditions for homeowners
insurance and residential plans. Additionally, an economic downturn could result
in fewer homeowner sales and less demand for homeowners insurance.

 Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty
insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical patterns of soft markets
followed by hard markets. Although an individual insurance financial
performance is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the
profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow
this cyclical market pattern.

 The Company believes that a substantial portion of its future growth
will depend on its ability, among other things, to successfully implement its
business strategy, including expanding the product offering by
underwriting and marketing additional insurance products and programs through
its distribution network and further penetrating the Florida market by
establishing relationships with additional independent agents in order to expand
its distribution network. Any future growth is contingent on various factors,
including the availability of adequate capital, the ability to hire
and train additional XX, regulatory requirements and rating agency
considerations. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in
expanding its business, that the existing infrastructure will be able to support
additional expansion or that any new business will be profitable. Moreover, as
the Company expands its insurance products and programs and the mix changes, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
maintain its profit margins or other operating results. There can also be no
assurance that the Company will be able to obtain the required regulatory
approvals to offer additional insurance products. UPCIC also is required to
maintain a minimum capital surplus to support its underwriting program. The
capital surplus requirement impacts potential growth.

LIMITED INSURANCE COMPANY OPERATING HISTORY

 UPCIC was incorporated in May 1997 and began operations in February
1998. Accordingly, UPCIC did not generate significant revenue until the second
quarter of 1998 when it had completed the acquisition of, and received premiums
for, the majority of the policies that it now services. growth to date


 5



may not be an accurate indication of future results of operations in light of
 short operating history, the competitive nature of the insurance
industry, and the effects, if any, of seasonality on results of
operations.

 Because of limited operating history, there can be no assurance
that UPCIC will achieve or sustain profitability or significant revenues. There
can be no assurance that UPCIC will successfully address these risks by
successfully executing its growth strategy and the failure to do so could have a
material adverse effect on the Company, financial condition and
results of operations.

MANAGEMENT OF EXPOSURE TO CATASTROPHIC LOSSES

 UPCIC is exposed to multiple insured losses arising out of a single
occurrence, such as a natural catastrophe. As with all property and casualty
insurers, UPCIC will incur some losses related to catastrophes and will price
its policies accordingly. exposure to catastrophic losses arises
principally out of hurricanes and windstorms. Through the use of standard
industry modeling techniques, UPCIC manages its exposure to such losses on an
ongoing basis from an underwriting perspective. In addition, UPCIC protects
itself against the risk of catastrophic loss by obtaining reinsurance coverage
up to the 100 year Probable Maximum Loss ("PML"). reinsurance program
consists of excess of loss, quota share and catastrophe reinsurance.

RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTIES AND REINSURERS

 UPCIC is dependent upon third parties to perform certain functions
including, but not limited to, claims management, investment management, the
purchase of reinsurance, underwriting, policy origination and risk management
analysis. UPCIC also relies on reinsurers to limit the amount of risk retained
under its policies and to increase its ability to write additional risks.
 intention is to limit its exposure and therefore protect its capital,
even in the event of catastrophic occurrences, through reinsurance agreements
that currently transfer the risk of loss in excess of $1 million up to the 100
year PML.

REINSURANCE

 The property and casualty reinsurance industry is subject to the same
market conditions as the direct property and casualty insurance market, and
there can be no assurance that reinsurance will be available to UPCIC to the
same extent and at the same cost as currently in place for UPCIC. Reinsurance
does not legally discharge an insurer from its primary liability for the full
amount of the risks it insures, although it does make the reinsurer liable to
the primary insurer. Therefore, UPCIC is subject to credit risk with respect to
its reinsurers. Management evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers
and monitors concentrations of credit risk to minimize its exposure to
significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. A insolvency or
inability to make payments under a reinsurance treaty could have a material
adverse affect on the financial condition and profitability of UPCIC.

ADEQUACY OF RESERVES

 The reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses periodically
established by UPCIC are estimates of amounts needed to pay reported and
unreported claims and related loss adjustment expenses. The estimates
necessarily will be based on certain assumptions related to the ultimate cost to
settle such claims. There is an inherent degree of uncertainty involved in the
establishment of reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses and there may


 6



be substantial differences between actual losses and reserve estimates.
In the case of UPCIC, this uncertainty is compounded by absence of
historical claims experience. UPCIC relies on industry data and JUA data, as
well as the expertise and experience of key individuals and service providers
referenced herein, in an effort to establish accurate estimates and adequate
reserves. Furthermore, factors such as storms and weather conditions, inflation,
claim settlement patterns, legislative activity and litigation trends may have
an impact on future loss experience. Accordingly, there can be no
assurance that reserves will be adequate to cover ultimate loss
developments. profitability and financial condition could be adversely
affected to the extent that its reserves are inadequate.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

 Florida insurance companies are subject to regulation and supervision
by the DOI. Notwithstanding the three-year assessment relief available to UPCIC
under the Takeout Program, the DOI has broad regulatory, supervisory and
administrative powers. Such powers relate, among other things, to the granting
and revocation of licenses to transact business; the licensing of agents; the
standards of solvency to be met and maintained; the nature of and limitations on
investments; approval of policy forms and rates; periodic examination of the
affairs of insurance companies; and the form and XXof required financial
statements. Such regulation and supervision are primarily for the benefit and
protection of policyholders and not for the benefit of investors.

 In addition, the Florida legislature and the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners from time to time consider proposals that may affect,
among other things, regulatory assessments and reserve requirements. UPCIC
cannot predict the effect that any proposed or future legislation or regulatory
or administrative initiatives may have on the financial condition or operations
of UPCIC.

DEPENDENCE ON KEY INDIVIDUALS AND THIRD PARTIES

 operations are materially dependent upon the efforts of
Universal Management, whose key executives include Joseph P. DeAlessandro,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; David Asher, XX Vice President and
Chief Underwriting Officer; Robert Thomas, Chief Financial Officer and Executive
Vice President; and Barry J. Goldstein, XX Vice President.

 In addition, operations depend in large part on the efforts of
Bradley I. Meier, who serves as President of UPCIC. Mr. Meier has also served as
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Universal Heights since its
inception in November 1990.

 The loss of the services provided by Universal key
executives or Mr. Meier could have a material adverse effect on 
financial condition and results of operations.

RELIANCE ON TAKEOUT PROGRAM

 To date, substantially all of the revenues have been derived
from the Takeout Program. While the Company is attempting to expand its revenue
base through its Subsidiaries, profitability and growth in the short-term will
depend upon ability to renew the policies transferred from the Takeout
Program and solicit policies written in the voluntary insurance market. There is
no assurance that UPCIC will be able to retain the policyholders whose policies
it acquires from the Takeout Program or that UPCIC will be able to attract
additional policyholders. The inability to retain and attract additional
policyholders could impair growth and future financial performance.


 7




COMPETITION

 The insurance industry is highly competitive and many companies
currently write homeowners property and casualty insurance. Additionally, the
Company and its subsidiaries must compete with companies that have greater
capital resources and longer operating histories for business both in the
Takeout Program and the private insurance market. Increased competition from
other insurance companies could adversely affect the ability to do
business profitably. Although the pricing is inevitably influenced to
some degree by that of its competitors, management of the Company believes that
it is generally not in the best interest to compete solely on price,
choosing instead to compete on the basis of underwriting criteria, its
distribution network and high quality service to its agents and insureds.

EMPLOYEES--

 As of March 31, 1999, the Company had nineteen employees. None of the
 employees is represented by a labor union. The Company has an
employment agreement with its President and Chief Executive Officer. See
"Executive Compensation--Employment Agreement. 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

 As of March 31, 1999, the Company leased approximately 1,300 square
feet of office space for its corporate headquarters in North Miami Beach,
Florida under a three-year lease. As of January 6, 1999 the Company leased
approximately 1,500 square feet of office space in Hallandale, Florida under a
three-year lease to operate its MGA. On January 28, 1999 the Company assumed the
remaining portion of a one-year lease that renewed May 1, 1998 on its Ormond
Beach agency operation for approximately 600 square feet of office space.


YEAR 1998, CIK 731939, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
INTRODUCTION:
 
 Temple-Inland Inc. (the "Company") is a holding company that conducts all
of its operations through its subsidiaries. The Company holds interests in
corrugated packaging, bleached paperboard, building products, timber and
timberlands, and financial services. The Paper Group consists of the
corrugated packaging and bleached paperboard operations. The corrugated
packaging operation is vertically integrated and consists of four linerboard
mills, three corrugating medium mills, 39 box plants, and nine specialty
converting plants. In February 1998, the Company announced its intention to
close, during the second quarter of 1998, one of its corrugating medium mills
and one of its box plants, both located in Newark, California. The bleached
paperboard operation consists of one large mill located in Evadale, Texas.
 
 The Building Products Group manufactures a wide range of building
products including lumber, plywood, particleboard, gypsum wallboard, and
fiberboard. Forest resources include approximately 2.2 million acres of
timberland in Texas, Louisiana, Georgia, and Alabama. The Financial
Services Group consists of savings bank activities, mortgage banking, real
estate development, and insurance brokerage.
 
 The Company is a Delaware corporation that was organized in 1983. Its
principal subsidiaries include Inland Paperboard and Packaging, Inc. ("Inland"),
Temple-Inland Forest Products Corporation ("Temple-Inland FPC"), Temple-Inland
Financial Services Inc. ("Financial Services"), Guaranty Federal Bank, F.S.B.
("Guaranty"), and Temple-Inland Mortgage Corporation ("Temple-Inland Mortgage").
 
 The principal executive offices are located at 303 South Temple
Drive, Diboll, Texas 75941. Its telephone number is (409) 829-5511.
 
 1
 3
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
 
 The results of operations including information regarding the principal
business segments are shown in the following table:
 
 TEMPLE-INLAND INC.
 BUSINESS SEGMENTS
 


 FOR THE YEAR
 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993
 (IN MILLIONS)
 
Revenues
 Paper $2,062.9 $2,082.3 $2,198.4 $1,740.7 $1,571.2
 Building products 617.3 562.6 532.9 575.5 497.5
 Other activities -- -- -- 19.2 58.4
 Manufacturing net sales 2,680.2 2,644.9 2,731.3 2,335.4 2,127.1
 Financial services 945.2 815.4 764.3 631.4 635.1
 Total revenues $3,625.4 $3,460.3 $3,495.6 $2,966.8 $2,762.2
 Income before taxes
 Paper $ (39.0) $ 113.0 356.6 $ 73.7 $ 5.6
 Building products 131.1 102.0 67.0 138.8 102.4
 Other activities -- -- -- 1.5 (1.9)
 Operating profit 92.1 215.0 423.6 214.0 106.1
 Financial services 132.1 63.1 98.1 56.3 67.5
 224.2 278.1 521.7 270.3 173.6
 Corporate expense (24.6) (17.2) (21.7) (13.7) (11.2)
 Parent company interest -- net (110.3) (109.6) (72.7) (67.1) (69.4)
 Other income 5.7 4.6 3.7 3.8 3.2
 Income before taxes $ 95.0 $ 155.9 $ 431.0 $ 193.3 $ 96.2
 
 
 
 Includes SAIF assessment of $43.9 million.
 
 For more information with respect to identifiable assets, capital
expenditures, depreciation, and depletion on a business segment basis, see pages
32-33 and 59 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, which are
incorporated herein by reference.
 
 2
 4
 
 The following table shows the revenues of the Company:
 
 REVENUES
 


 FOR THE YEAR
 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993
 (IN MILLIONS)
 
Paper
 Corrugated packaging $1,694.0 $1,760.6 $1,910.3 $1,499.2 $1,306.9
 Bleached paperboard 366.0 300.5 249.0 217.4 228.7
 Pulp and other 2.9 21.2 39.1 24.1 35.6
 2,062.9 2,082.3 2,198.4 1,740.7 1,571.2
 Building products
 Pine lumber 262.1 217.4 190.1 211.9 176.0
 Fiber products 66.2 73.3 59.7 66.3 62.9
 Particleboard 125.0 112.2 99.1 103.0 81.3
 Plywood 55.2 52.1 49.3 56.8 54.0
 Gypsum wallboard 104.6 90.2 83.1 74.3 53.3
 Retail distribution 4.2 17.1 51.3 58.4 60.0
 Other -- .3 0.3 4.8 10.0
 617.3 562.6 532.9 575.5 497.5
 Other activities -- -- -- 19.2 58.4
 Manufacturing net sales 2,680.2 2,644.9 2,731.3 2,335.4 2,127.1
Financial services 945.2 815.4 764.3 631.4 635.1
 Total revenues $3,625.4 $3,460.3 $3,495.6 $2,966.8 $2,762.2
 
 
 
 Reclassified to include revenues from Temple-Inland Food Service Corporation
 ("Food Service") for 1996, 1995, 1994, and 1993. In the fourth quarter of
 1997, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of Food Service, a
 subsidiary that manufactured and marketed paper products for the food
 service industry. Related revenues were $66.3 million, $84.1 million, $80.9
 million, $57.9 million, and $54.2 million for 1997, 1996, 1995, 1994, and
 1993, respectively.
 
 In October 1995, the Company sold the largest two of its five retail
 distribution outlets. Two more of these retail distribution outlets were
 sold during December 1996, and the final outlet was sold during 1997.
 
 Includes the revenues from subsidiaries engaged in commercial, industrial,
 and public works contracting until their operations were terminated in 1993
 and the revenues from subsidiaries engaged in the construction and
 maintenance of electrical distribution facilities until their operations
 were terminated in 1994.
 
 3
 5
 
 The following table shows the rated annual capacities of the production
facilities for, and unit sales of, the principal manufactured products.
 
 ANNUAL CAPACITIES/UNIT SALES
 


 RATED
 ANNUAL
 CAPACITY
 AT UNIT SALES
 JANUARY 3, 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993
 (IN THOUSANDS OF TONS)
 
Paper
 Corrugated packaging 2,769 2,435 2,333 2,492 2,394
 Bleached paperboard 635 524 400 430 426
 Pulp 2 100 99 87 134
 (IN MILLIONS OF BOARD FEET)
Building products
 Pine lumber 675 639 605 582 583 552
 (IN MILLIONS OF SQUARE FEET)
 Fiber products 460 402 457 422 441 440
 Particleboard 610 470 399 329 347 319
 Plywood 265 281 259 217 260 265
 Gypsum wallboard 866 843 838 813 796 782

 
 
 The annual capacity of the box plants is not given because such annual
 capacity is a function of the product mix, customer requirements, and the
 type of converting equipment installed and operating at each plant, each of
 which varies from time to time. The rated annual capacity of 
 corrugating medium mills is approximately 615,000 tons per year, including
 the 70,000 tons of capacity at the Newark, California, mill, which the
 Company intends to close during the second quarter of 1998. The rated
 annual capacity of the linerboard mills is approximately 2.2 million tons
 per year.
 
 The annual capacity of the four paper machines in operation at the
 paperboard and pulp mill is approximately 690,000 tons, which excludes the
 capacity of a cylinder machine at the mill that the Company decided to shut
 down late in 1993 due to market conditions for the grade it produced. Such
 capacity may vary to some degree, depending on product mix.
 
 The annual capacity for the particleboard plants includes the rated annual
 capacity of the Hope, Arkansas, plant, which began operations late in 1995
 but did not reach full production until the fourth quarter of 1996. The
 capacity figures for 1996 reflect the increase at the Monroeville, Alabama,
 plant that resulted from a renovation of this facility during 1996. The
 1997 figures reflect an increase at the Diboll, Texas, and Thomson,
 Georgia, plants due to similar renovations during 1997.
 
NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS:
 
 The business of the Company is divided among three groups: the Paper
Group, which consists of the corrugated packaging and bleached paperboard
operations, the Building Products Group, and the Financial Services
Group. In the year ended January 3, 1998, the Paper Group, Building Products
Group, and Financial Services Group provided 57 percent, 17 percent, and 26
percent, respectively, of the total consolidated net revenues of the Company.
 
 Paper Group. This group is composed of two operations: corrugated packaging
and bleached paperboard.
 
 Corrugated Packaging. The corrugated packaging operation of the Company
manufactures containerboard that it converts into a complete line of corrugated
packaging and point-of-purchase displays. Approximately 84 percent of the
containerboard produced by Inland in 1997 was converted into corrugated
containers at its box plants. The nationwide network of box plants
produces a wide range of
 
 4
 6
 
products from commodity brown boxes to intricate die cut containers that can be
printed with multi-color graphics. Even though the corrugated box business is
characterized by commodity pricing, each order for each customer is a custom
order. corrugated boxes are sold to a variety of customers in the food,
paper, glass containers, chemical, appliance, and plastics industries, among
others. As of January 3, 1998, about 47 percent of the box shipments
were sold directly for use in the food industry, including beverage containers.
 
 The Company also manufactures litho-laminate corrugated packaging and high
graphics folding cartons. Other products manufactured by the Company include
bulk containers constructed of multi-wall corrugated board for extra strength,
which are used for bulk shipments of various materials, paper sealing tape, and
other tape specialties.
 
 In the corrugated packaging operation, the Company services about 6,800
customers with approximately 11,000 shipping destinations. The largest single
customer accounted for approximately four percent and the 10 largest customers
accounted for approximately 26 percent of the 1997 corrugated packaging
revenues. Costs of freight and customer service requirements necessitate the
location of box plants relatively close to customers. Each plant tends to
service a market within a 150-mile radius of the plant.
 
 Sales of corrugated shipping containers closely track changing population
patterns and other demographics. Historically, there has been a correlation
between the demand for containers and containerboard and real growth in the
United States gross domestic product, particularly the non-durable goods
segment.
 
 (ii) Bleached Paperboard. The bleached paperboard operation of the Company
produces various grades and weights of coated and uncoated bleached paperboard,
bleached linerboard, and bleached bristols. These materials are used by other
paper companies and by manufacturers that buy paper in roll lots and convert it
into such items as paper cups, plates, file folders, folding cartons, paperback
book covers, and various other packaging and convenience products.
 
 Bleached paperboard products are sold to a large number of customers. Sales
to the largest customer of this operation, with whom the Company has a
long-standing relationship, accounted for approximately 12 percent of bleached
paperboard sales in 1997. This level of sales is consistent with sales to this
customer over the past several years. Although the loss of this customer could
have a material adverse effect on this operation, it would not have a material
adverse effect on the Company taken as a whole . This customer is also a
customer of the corrugated packaging operation, but sales to this customer
represent less than four percent of the total sales of the corrugated packaging
operation. The 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 57 percent of
bleached paperboard sales in 1997. During 1997, sales were made to customers in
43 states, Mexico, and Puerto Rico, as well as to independent distributors
through which this products were exported to Asia, Japan, Central
America, and South America. Contracts specifying annual tonnage quantities are
maintained with several major customers.
 
 Demand for bleached paperboard products generally correlates with real
growth in retail sales of non-durable packaged products in the United States, as
well as the level of fast food restaurant activity for food service grades,
including cup and plate. Demand is also affected by inventory levels maintained
by paperboard converters as well as a number of other factors, including changes
in industry production capacity and the strength of international markets.
 
 Substantially all of the assets of Temple-Inland Food Service Corporation
("Food Service") were sold to a third party during 1997. Food Service was an
integrated paper converter formed by the Company to manufacture and market paper
containers and products primarily for the food service industry. Its products
included paper plates and bowls, clamshells, carrying trays and boxes, nested
food trays, fry cartons, and pails. These products were sold to the fast food
industry, retail consumer stores, and restaurants and cafeterias for use in food
service. The Company determined that Food Service was not a good strategic fit
and would be better served as part of an organization committed to those product
lines. The Company continues to manufacture bleached paperboard grades for
conversion to paper cups and plates by outside customers.
 
 5
 7
 
 Building Products Group. The Building Products Group produces a wide
variety of building products, such as lumber, plywood, particleboard, gypsum
wallboard, hardboard siding, and fiberboard sheathing.
 
 Sales of building products are concentrated in the southern United States.
No significant sales are generated under long-term contracts. Sales of most of
these products are made by account managers and representatives to distributors,
retailers, and O.E.M. (original equipment manufacturer) accounts. Almost 78
percent of particleboard sales are to commercial fabricators, such as
manufacturers of cabinets and furniture. The 10 largest customers accounted for
approximately 23 percent of the Building Products 1997 sales.
 
 The building products business is heavily dependent upon the level of
residential housing expenditures, including the repair and remodeling market.
 
 During 1996, the Company completed an upgrade to its particleboard plant in
Monroeville, Alabama. Similar renovation projects were completed at the Diboll,
Texas, and Thomson, Georgia, particleboard plants during 1997.
 
 The Building Products Group is a 50 percent owner in three joint ventures.
One of these joint ventures is currently scheduled to begin producing medium
density fiberboard in the second quarter of 1998 at a facility under
construction in Arkansas. Another of these joint ventures is expected to begin
producing cement fiberboard in the third quarter of 1998 at a plant under
construction in Texas. The third joint venture was the acquisition of an
existing facility for the production of gypsum wallboard and a related quarry.
This joint venture also began construction after year end of a wallboard plant
to be located in Tennessee, completion of which is anticipated by 2000.
 
 Financial Services Group. The Financial Services Group operates a savings
bank and engages in mortgage banking, real estate development, and insurance
activities.
 
 Savings Bank. Guaranty is a federally-chartered stock savings bank
operated by the Company through its financial services subsidiaries. Guaranty
conducts its business in Texas through 110 banking centers located primarily in
the eastern third of Texas, including Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, and Austin.
Following the acquisition of California Financial Holding Company
("CFHC") in the second quarter of 1997, Guaranty operates an additional 25
branches in the Central Valley of California. The primary activities of Guaranty
include attracting savings deposits from the general public, investing in loans
secured by mortgages on residential real estate, lending for the construction of
real estate projects, and providing a variety of loan products to consumers and
businesses.
 
 Guaranty derives its income primarily from interest earned on real estate
mortgages, commercial and business loans, consumer loans, and investment
securities, as well as fees received in connection with loans and deposit
services. Its major expense is the interest it pays on consumer deposits and
other borrowings. The operations of Guaranty, like those of other savings
institutions, are significantly influenced by general economic conditions, by
the monetary, fiscal, and regulatory policies of the federal government, and by
the policies of financial institution regulatory authorities. Deposit flows and
costs of funds are influenced by interest rates on competing investments and
general market rates of interest. Lending activities are affected by the demand
for mortgage financing and for other types of loans as well as market
conditions. Guaranty primarily seeks assets with interest rates that adjust
periodically rather than assets with long-term fixed rates.
 
 During the second quarter of 1997, the Company completed its acquisition of
CFHC, the parent corporation of Stockton Savings Bank, F.S.B. ("Stockton")
headquartered in Stockton, California. CFHC stockholders received total
consideration of approximately $143.4 million, or $30 per share, consisting of a
combination of the common stock of the Company and cash. The operations of
Stockton were subsequently merged into Guaranty.
 
 During 1996, Congress adopted legislation to recapitalize the Savings
Association Insurance Fund ("SAIF"). This legislation imposed a one-time special
assessment on SAIF members equal to 65.7 basis points of insured deposits, or
approximately $44 million in the case of Guaranty. Under this legislation,
Guaranty will not currently be required to pay any deposit insurance premiums,
but will be required to pay
 
 6
 8
 
approximately 6.5 basis points on insured deposits to fund certain Financial
Corporation (FICO) bond obligations. Based on the current level of 
deposits, this legislation has reduced assessments by approximately $10 million.
 
 The House and Senate are also discussing additional legislative proposals,
including changes to tax laws, related to the thrift industry. At this time, the
Company is not able to predict if any of these proposals will be adopted or, if
adopted, the ultimate impact they might have on the Company.
 
 In addition to other minimum capital standards, regulations of the Office
of Thrift Supervision of the Department of the Treasury (the "OTS") established
to ensure capital adequacy of savings institutions currently require savings
institutions to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of total and Tier I capital
to risk-weighted assets and of Tier I capital to adjusted tangible assets.
Management believes that as of year end, Guaranty met all of its capital
adequacy requirements. In order to obtain the lowest level of FDIC insurance
premiums, Guaranty must meet a leverage capital ratio of at least 5 percent of
adjusted total assets. At year end, Guaranty had a leverage capital ratio of
5.48 percent of adjusted total assets. For additional information regarding
regulatory capital requirements, see Note M to Financial Services Group
Summarized Financial Statements on page 49 of the 1997 Annual Report
to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 Guaranty must meet or exceed certain regulatory requirements to continue
its current activities and to take certain deductions under the Internal Revenue
Code. At year end, Guaranty met or exceeded these regulatory requirements and
intends to continue meeting or exceeding these regulatory requirements.
 
 (ii) Mortgage Banking. Temple-Inland Mortgage, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Guaranty, headquartered in Austin, Texas, originates, warehouses, and services
FHA, VA, and conventional mortgage loans primarily on single family residential
property. Temple-Inland Mortgage originates mortgage loans for sale into the
secondary market. It typically retains the servicing rights on these loans, but
periodically sells some portion of its servicing to third parties. During 1997,
Temple-Inland Mortgage expanded its operations in the Midwest by acquiring
Knutson Mortgage Corporation of Minneapolis, a full-service mortgage bank with a
loan servicing portfolio of approximately $6 billion. At year end, Temple-Inland
Mortgage was servicing $26.1 billion in mortgage loans, including loans serviced
for affiliates and approximately $1.6 billion in mortgages serviced for a third
party. Temple-Inland Mortgage produced $3.2 billion in mortgage loans during
1997 compared with $1.9 billion during 1996.
 
 (iii) Real Estate Development and Income Properties. Subsidiaries of
Financial Services are involved in the development of 34 residential
subdivisions in Texas, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia,
Missouri, Tennessee, and Utah. The real estate group of the Company also owns 18
commercial properties, including properties owned by joint ventures in which
subsidiaries of Financial Services are venture partners.
 
 (iv) Insurance. Subsidiaries of Financial Services are engaged in the
brokerage of property, casualty, life, and group health insurance products. One
of these subsidiaries is an insurance agency that administers the marketing and
distribution of several mortgage-related personal life, accident, and health
insurance programs. This agency also acts as the risk management department of
the Company. An affiliate of the agency sells annuities through banks and
savings banks, including Guaranty.
 
 YEAR 1998, CIK 355429, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

 Protective Life Corporation is a holding company, whose subsidiaries
provide financial services through the production, distribution, and
administration of insurance and investment products. The Company also
participates in a joint venture which owns a life insurance company in Hong
Kong. Founded in 1907, Protective Life Insurance Company is the 
principal operating subsidiary. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
"Company" refers to the consolidated group of Protective Life Corporation and
its subsidiaries.

 Copies of the Proxy Statement and 1997 Annual Report to
Stockholders will be furnished to anyone who requests such documents from the
Company. Requests for copies should be directed to: Stockholder Relations,
Protective Life Corporation, P. O. Box 2606, Birmingham, Alabama 35202,
Telephone (205) 868-3573, FAX (205) 868-3541. The information incorporated
herein by reference is also electronically accessible through the Internet from
the "EDGAR Database of Corporate Information" on the Securities and Exchange
 World Wide Web site (http://www.sec.gov).

 The Company operates seven divisions whose principal strategic focuses
can be grouped into three general categories: life insurance, specialty
insurance products, and retirement savings and investment products.

 Additional information concerning the divisions may be found
in " DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS - RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" and Note J to Consolidated Financial
Statements in the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are
incorporated herein by reference.

LIFE INSURANCE

 A strategic focus of the Company is to expand its life insurance
operations through internal growth and acquisitions. The Acquisitions,
Individual Life, and West Coast Divisions support this strategy.


ACQUISITIONS DIVISION

 The Company is an active participant in the consolidation of the life
and health insurance industry. The Acquisitions Division focuses on acquiring,
converting, and servicing business acquired from other companies. These
acquisitions may be accomplished through acquisitions of companies or through
the assumption or reinsurance of life insurance and related policies. Thirty-
nine transactions have been closed by the Division since 1970, including 12
since 1989. Blocks of policies acquired through the Division are usually
administered as "closed" blocks; i.e., no new policies are sold. Therefore, the
amount of insurance in force for a particular acquisition is expected to decline
with time due to lapses and deaths of the insureds. However, in the case of the
most recent acquisition closed by the Division, West Coast Life Insurance
Company ("West

 3





Coast") which is discussed below, the Company has elected to continue the
marketing of new policies.

 The Company believes that its highly focused and disciplined approach
to the acquisition process and its extensive experience in the assimilation,
conservation, and servicing of purchased business give it a significant
competitive advantage over many other companies that attempt to make similar
acquisitions. The Company expects acquisition opportunities to continue to be
available as the life and health industry continues to consolidate; however,
management believes that the Company may face increased competition for future
acquisitions.

 Total revenues and income before income tax from the Acquisitions
Division are expected to decline with time unless new acquisitions are made.
Therefore, the revenues and earnings may fluctuate from year to year
depending upon the level of acquisition activity.

 In the second quarter of 1995, the Division coinsured a block of 28,000
policies. In January 1996, the Division coinsured a block of 38,000 policies. In
December 1996, the Division acquired Community National Assurance Company with
16,000 policies and coinsured a related block of 22,000 policies. In June 1997,
the Company acquired West Coast which is discussed below.

 From time to time other of the Divisions have acquired
companies and blocks of policies which are included in their respective results.


INDIVIDUAL LIFE DIVISION

 The Individual Life Division markets universal life, variable universal
life and other life insurance products on a national basis through a network of
independent insurance agents. In addition, the Division has grown sales by
developing niche marketing strategies. The strategies include marketing
specialty products through insurance brokerage channels and traditional life
insurance products through regional stockbrokers and banks. The Division also
offers its products on a "private label" basis to other insurance companies and
their distribution systems. The Division has experienced increased sales even
though the life insurance industry is a mature industry.

 The Division primarily utilizes a distribution system based on
experienced independent personal producing general agents who are recruited by
regional sales managers. At December 31, 1997, there were 37 regional sales
managers located throughout the United States. Approximately 51% of the
 1997 sales came from this distribution system. In addition, the
Division distributes insurance products in the life insurance brokerage market
through a wholly-owned subsidiary, Empire General Life Assurance Corporation,
representing approximately 39% of sales. The remaining 10% of 1997 sales came
from stockbrokers, banks, and private label arrangements.

 The Division also includes ProEquities, Inc. ("PES"), an affiliated
securities broker-dealer. Through PES, members of the field force who
are licensed to sell securities can sell stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and
investment products that may be manufactured or issued by companies other than
the Company.

 4






WEST COAST DIVISION

 On June 3, 1997, the Company acquired West Coast. Headquartered in San
Francisco, West Coast sells universal and traditional ordinary life products in
the life insurance brokerage market and in the "bank owned life insurance"
market.

 Most acquisitions closed by the Acquisitions Division do not include
the acquisition of an active sales force. In transactions where some marketing
capacity was included, the Company either ceased future marketing efforts or
combined those efforts with another Division. In the West Coast case, the
Company elected to continue the marketing of new policies, operating the company
as a separate Division.

 The West Coast Division primarily utilizes a distribution system
comprised of brokerage general agencies ("BGAs") with a network of independent
life agents. The BGAs provide varying levels of service to the independent
agents based on the size and structure of the individual BGA organizations. At
December 31, 1997, the Division worked with 42 BGAs located throughout the
United States.


SPECIALTY INSURANCE PRODUCTS

 A second strategic focus of the Company is to participate in
specialized segments of the insurance industry that offer attractive growth
opportunities. The Dental and Consumer Benefits and Financial Institutions
Divisions support this strategy.


DENTAL AND CONSUMER BENEFITS DIVISION

 The Division (formerly known as the Group Division) recently exited
from the traditional group major medical business, fulfilling the 
strategy to focus primarily on dental and related products. Accordingly, the
Division was reXX the Dental and Consumer Benefits ("Dental") Division.

 The Dental primary strategic emphasis is on indemnity and
managed-care dental products. At December 31, 1997, the Division had
approximately 527,000 members in its dental managed care programs, and
approximately 1,157,000 members in all of its dental programs.

 The Division was a pioneer in developing indemnity dental products for
the voluntary payroll deduction market. In 1995, the Division entered the dental
managed care segment when it acquired a dental managed care company which
transacts business under the trade name "DentiCare". The acquisition combined
 high quality service and product capabilities with the Dental
 marketing strength and capacity to distribute dental products through
a much broader geographic distribution framework. The strategy is to
promote a "dual choice" option by offering products through the
 existing indemnity dental distribution channels. The Division has
also developed an innovative system for prospecting and selling dental insurance
products by telephone.


 5





 The Division also plans to grow the dental business through
acquisitions. In 1996, the Division extended the geographical reach of its
dental managed care operations into Oklahoma, Arkansas and Missouri and added
approximately 38,000 new members through the acquisition of two related dental
managed care plans doing business in those states. In 1997, the Division
acquired three similar organizations: one with approximately 18,000 members in
Wisconsin, a second with approximately 14,000 members in Texas, and a third with
approximately 57,000 members in Georgia.

 The Division recently launched Dental Network Plans, which offers
discounted fee-for-service dental programs to individual consumers and groups
where enrolled consumers have access to a contracted network of dental providers
who have agreed to a discounted fee schedule.

 The Division also markets group life and disability coverages, and
administers an essentially closed block of individual cancer insurance policies.


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DIVISION

 The Financial Institutions Division specializes in marketing credit
life and disability insurance products through banks, consumer finance companies
and automobile dealers. The majority of these policies cover consumer loans made
by financial institutions located primarily in the southeastern United States
and automobile dealers throughout the United States. Therefore, the demand for
credit life and credit health insurance is related to the general level of loan
demand. The Division markets through employee field representatives, independent
brokers and wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Company believes it has been a
beneficiary of a "flight to quality," as financial institutions and automobile
dealers increasingly prefer to do business with insurers having quality
products, strong balance sheets and high-quality training and service
capabilities.

 On September 30, 1997, the Division acquired the Western Diversified
Group. The Western Diversified Group markets credit insurance and related
products through automobile dealers primarily in the midwestern United States.
The Western Diversified Group includes a small property and casualty insurer
that sells automobile extended warranty coverages, which the Division plans to
market nationally through its other distribution channels. In addition, on
October 1, 1997, the Division acquired an unrelated closed block of credit
policies.

RETIREMENT SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PRODUCTS

 A third strategic focus of the Company is to offer products that
respond to the shift in consumer preference to savings products brought about by
demographic trends as "baby-boomers" move into the saving stage of their life
cycle. The two Divisions that support this strategy are the Guaranteed
Investment Contracts and Investment Products Divisions.

GUARANTEED INVESTMENT CONTRACTS DIVISION

 The Company entered the Guaranteed Investment Contracts ("GIC")
business in 1989. The GIC Division markets GICs to 401 and other qualified
retirement savings plans. GICs are

 6





generally contracts which specify a return on deposits for a specified period
and often provide flexibility for withdrawals, in keeping with the benefits
provided by the plan. The Division also offers related products, including
guaranteed funding agreements offered to the trustees of municipal bond
proceeds, floating rate contracts offered to bank trust departments, and
long-term annuity contracts offered to fund certain state obligations. The
 emphasis is on a consistent and disciplined approach to product
pricing and asset/liability management, careful underwriting of early withdrawal
risks and maintaining low distribution and administration costs.

 Most GIC contracts written by the Company have maturities of three to
five years. Prior to 1993, few GIC contracts were maturing because the contracts
were newly written. Therefore, GIC account balances grew at a significant rate.
Beginning in 1993, GIC contracts began to mature as contemplated when the
contracts were sold. Hence, the rate of growth in GIC deposits has decreased as
the amount of maturing contracts has increased.


INVESTMENT PRODUCTS DIVISION

 The Investment Products Division manufactures, sells, and supports
fixed and variable annuity products. These products are primarily sold through
stockbrokers, but are also sold through financial institutions and the
Individual Life sales force. The demand for annuity products is
related to the general level of interest rates and performance of the equity
markets.

 Since 1990, the Division has offered modified guaranteed annuity
products which guarantee an interest rate for a fixed period. Because contract
values are "market-value adjusted" upon surrender prior to maturity, these
products afford the Company a measure of protection from changes in interest
rates. In 1992, the Division ceased most new sales of single premium deferred
annuities. In 1994, the Division introduced a variable annuity product which
offers the policyholder the opportunity to invest in various investment
accounts.

 Variable annuity products represent approximately 49% of the 
account balances at December 31, 1997 and 64% of the 1997 sales.


CORPORATE AND OTHER

 The Company has an additional business segment herein referred to as
Corporate and Other. The Corporate and Other segment primarily consists of net
investment income and expenses not attributable to the Divisions described above
(including net investment income on capital and interest on substantially all
debt). This segment also includes earnings from various investment-related
transactions and the operations of several small subsidiaries. The earnings of
this segment may fluctuate from year to year.

 In 1994, the Company entered into a joint venture arrangement to enter
the Hong Kong insurance market. The Company owns a 50% interest in a Hong Kong
insurer which commenced business in early 1995. Management believes that this
joint venture will position the Company to market life insurance in mainland
China when that opportunity unfolds. The Company continues to investigate other
possible opportunities in Asia.

 7







INSURANCE IN FORCE

 The total consolidated life insurance in force at December 31,
1997 was $89.3 billion. The following table shows sales by face amount and
insurance in force for the divisions. 

 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993
 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
NEW BUSINESS WRITTEN
 
 INDIVIDUAL LIFE $10,588,594 $ 9,245,002 $ 7,564,983 $ 6,329,630 $ 4,440,510
 WEST COAST 1,984,928
 DENTAL 124,230 115,748 119,357 184,429 252,345
 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 4,183,216 3,956,581 3,563,177 2,524,212 2,776,276
 TOTAL $16,880,968 $13,317,331 $11,247,517 $ 9,038,271 $ 7,469,131
 
BUSINESS ACQUIRED
 ACQUISITIONS $ 1,286,673 $ 6,129,159 $ 4,756,371 $ 4,378,812
 WEST COAST $10,237,731
 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 3,364,617 $ 1,607,463
 
 TOTAL $13,602,348 $ 2,894,136 $ 6,129,159 $ 4,756,371 $ 4,378,812
 
INSURANCE IN FORCE AT END OF YEAR
 ACQUISITIONS $20,955,836 $20,037,857 $16,778,359 $11,728,569 $ 8,452,114
 INDIVIDUAL LIFE 39,715,608 35,765,841 32,500,935 25,843,232 22,975,577
 WEST COAST 12,004,967
 DENTAL 6,393,076 6,054,947 6,371,313 7,464,501 6,716,724
 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 10,183,997 7,468,761 6,233,256 4,841,318 4,306,179
 TOTAL $89,253,484 $69,327,406 $61,883,863 $49,877,620 $42,450,594
 


REINSURANCE ASSUMED HAS BEEN INCLUDED; REINSURANCE CEDED (1997-$34,139,554;
 1996-$18,840,221; 1995- $17,524,366; 1994-$8,639,272; 1993-$7,484,566) HAS
 NOT BEEN DEDUCTED.


 The ratio of voluntary terminations of individual life insurance to
mean individual life insurance in force, which is determined by dividing the
amount of insurance terminated due to lapses during the year by the mean of the
insurance in force at the beginning and end of the year, adjusted for the timing
of major acquisitions and assumptions was:

 RATIO OF
 YEAR ENDED VOLUNTARY
 DECEMBER 31 TERMINATIONS

 1993 8.7%
 1994 7.0
 1995 6.9
 1996 6.4
 1997 6.9

 Net terminations reflect voluntary lapses, some of which may be due to
the replacement of the products with competitors' products. Also, a
higher percentage of voluntary lapses typically occurs in the first 15 months of
a policy, and accordingly, lapses will tend to

 8





increase or decrease in proportion to the change in new insurance written during
the immediately preceding periods.

 The amount of investment products in force is measured by account
balances. The following table shows guaranteed investment contract and annuity
account balances.



 GUARANTEED MODIFIED
 YEAR ENDED INVESTMENT GUARANTEED FIXED VARIABLE
 DECEMBER 31 CONTRACTS ANNUITIES ANNUITIES ANNUITIES
 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

 
 1993 $2,015,075 $468,689 $537,053
 1994 2,281,673 661,359 542,766 $ 170,454
 1995 2,451,693 741,849 472,656 392,237
 1996 2,474,728 862,747 390,461 624,714
 1997 2,684,676 926,071 453,418 1,057,186



UNDERWRITING

 The underwriting policies of the insurance subsidiaries are
established by management. With respect to individual insurance, the
subsidiaries use information from the application and, in some cases, inspection
reports, attending physician statements, or medical examinations to determine
whether a policy should be issued as applied for, rated, or rejected. Medical
examinations of applicants are required for individual life insurance in excess
of certain prescribed amounts (which vary based on the type of insurance) and
for most individual insurance applied for by applicants over age 50. In the case
of "simplified issue" policies, which are issued primarily through the Financial
Institutions Division and the Individual Life Division in the payroll deduction
market, coverage is rejected if the responses to certain health questions
contained in the application indicate adverse health of the applicant. For other
than "simplified issue" policies, medical examinations are requested of any
applicant, regardless of age and amount of requested coverage, if an examination
is deemed necessary to underwrite the risk. Substandard risks may be referred to
reinsurers for full or partial reinsurance of the substandard risk.

 The insurance subsidiaries require blood samples to be drawn
with individual insurance applications for coverage at age 16 and above except
in the payroll deduction market where the face amount must be $100,000 or more
before blood testing is required. Blood samples are tested for a wide range of
chemical values and are screened for antibodies to the HIV virus. Applications
also contain questions permitted by law regarding the HIV virus which must be
answered by the proposed insureds.

 Group insurance underwriting policies are administered by experienced
group underwriters. The underwriting policies are designed for single employer
groups. Initial premium rates are based on prior claim experience and manual
premium rates with relative weights depending on the size of the group and the
nature of the benefits.




 9





INVESTMENTS

 The types of assets in which the Company may invest are influenced by
state laws which prescribe qualified investment assets. Within the parameters of
these laws, the Company invests its assets giving consideration to such factors
as liquidity needs, investment quality, investment return, matching of assets
and liabilities, and the composition of the investment portfolio by asset type
and credit exposure.

 The following table shows the investments at December 31,
1997 valued on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles.



 PERCENT OF TOTAL
 ASSET VALUE INVESTMENTS
 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
 FIXED MATURITIES:
 BONDS:
 
 MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES $3,019,790 37.5%
 UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
 AND GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
 AND AUTHORITIES 161,850 2.0
 STATES, MUNICIPALITIES, AND
 POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS 32,153 0.4
 PUBLIC UTILITIES 488,922 6.1
 CONVERTIBLES AND BONDS
 WITH WARRANTS ATTACHED 526 -
 ALL OTHER CORPORATE BONDS 2,665,146 33.1
 REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCKS 5,941 0.1
 TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES 6,374,328 79.2
 
 EQUITY SECURITIES:
 COMMON STOCKS - INDUSTRIAL,
 MISCELLANEOUS, AND ALL OTHER 4,605 0.1
 NONREDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCKS 10,401 0.1
 TOTAL EQUITY SECURITIES 15,006 0.2

 MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE 1,312,778 16.3
 INVESTMENT REAL ESTATE 13,602 0.2
 POLICY LOANS 194,109 2.4
 OTHER LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS 63,511 0.8
 SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS 76,086 0.9
 TOTAL INVESTMENTS $8,049,420 100.0%
 

 A significant portion of the bond portfolio is invested in
mortgage-backed securities. Mortgage-backed securities are constructed from
pools of residential mortgages, and may have cash flow volatility as a result of
changes in the rate at which prepayments of principal occur with respect to the
underlying loans. Prepayments of principal on the underlying residential loans
can be expected to accelerate with decreases in interest rates and diminish with
increases in interest rates. In its mortgage-backed securities portfolio, the
Company has focused on sequential, planned amortization class and targeted
amortization class securities, which tend to be less volatile than other classes
of mortgage-backed securities.



 10





 The Company obtains ratings of its fixed maturities from 
Investors Service, Inc. ("") and Standard & Corporation ("S&P").
If a bond is not rated by or S&P, the Company uses ratings from the
Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners ("NAIC"), or the Company rates the bond based upon a comparison of
the unrated issue to rated issues of the same issuer or rated issues of other
issuers with similar risk characteristics. At December 31, 1997, approximately
99.6% of bonds were rated by , S&P, or the NAIC.

 The following table shows the approximate percentage distribution of
the fixed maturities by rating, utilizing S&P rating categories, at
December 31, 1997:

 PERCENTAGE OF
 TYPE FIXED MATURITIES

 BONDS
 AAA 41.0%
 AA 4.8
 A 28.9
 BBB 21.8
 BB OR LESS 3.4
 REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK 0.1
 TOTAL 100.0%

 At December 31, 1997, approximately $6,147.2 million of the 
$6,368.4 million bond portfolio was invested in U.S. Government or agency-backed
securities or investment grade corporate bonds and only approximately $221.2
million of its bond portfolio was rated less than investment grade, of which
$89.6 million were securities issued in Company-sponsored commercial mortgage
loan securitizations. Approximately $719.9 million of bonds are not publicly
traded.

 Risks associated with investments in less than investment grade debt
obligations may be significantly higher than risks associated with investments
in debt securities rated investment grade. Risk of loss upon default by the
borrower is significantly greater with respect to such debt obligations than
with other debt securities because these obligations may be unsecured or
subordinated to other creditors. Additionally, there is often a thinly traded
market for such securities and current market quotations are frequently not
available for some of these securities. Issuers of less than investment grade
debt obligations usually have higher levels of indebtedness and are more
sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing
interest rates, than investment-grade issuers.

 The Company also invests a significant portion of its portfolio in
mortgage loans. Results for these investments have been excellent due to careful
management and a focus on a specialized segment of the market. The Company
generally does not lend on speculative properties and has specialized in making
loans on either credit-oriented commercial properties or credit-anchored strip
shopping centers. The average size of loans made during 1997 was $3.0 million.
The average size mortgage loan in the portfolio is approximately $1.6
million. The largest single loan amount is $12.8 million.



 11





 The following table shows a breakdown of the mortgage loan
portfolio by property type:

 PERCENTAGE OF
 MORTGAGE LOANS
 PROPERTY TYPE ON REAL ESTATE

 RETAIL 75%
 APARTMENTS 9
 OFFICE BUILDING 7
 WAREHOUSES 7
 OTHER 2
 ----
 TOTAL 100%

 Retail loans are generally on strip shopping centers located in smaller
towns and anchored by one or more strong regional or national retail stores. The
anchor tenants enter into long-term leases with the borrowers. These
centers provide the basic necessities of life, such as food, pharmaceuticals,
and clothing, and have been relatively insensitive to changes in economic
conditions. The following are some of the largest anchor tenants (measured by
the exposure) in the strip shopping centers at December 31, 1997:

 PERCENTAGE OF
 MORTGAGE LOANS
 ANCHOR TENANTS ON REAL ESTATE
 FOOD LION, INC. 5%
 KMART CORPORATION 3
 WINN DIXIE STORES, INC. 3
 WAL-MART STORES, INC. 2
 CVS CORPORATION 2

 The mortgage lending criteria generally require that the
loan-to-value ratio on each mortgage be at or under 75% at the time of
origination. Projected rental payments from credit anchors (i.e., excluding
rental payments from smaller local tenants) generally exceed 70% of the
 projected operating expenses and debt service.

 For several years the Company has offered a commercial loan product under
which the Company will permit a loan-to-value ratio of up to 85% in exchange for
a participating interest in the cash flows from the underlying real estate.
Approximately $465 million of the mortgage loans have this
participation feature.

 Many of the mortgage loans have call or interest rate reset
provisions after five to seven years. However, if interest rates were to
significantly increase, the Company may be unable to call the loans or increase
the interest rates on its existing mortgage loans commensurate with the
significantly increased market rates.

 At December 31, 1997, $17.7 million or 1.4% of the mortgage loan portfolio
was nonperforming. It is the policy to cease to carry accrued interest
on loans that are over 90 days delinquent. For loans less than 90 days
delinquent, interest is accrued unless it is determined that the accrued
interest is not collectible. If a loan becomes over 90 days delinquent,

 12





it is the general policy to initiate foreclosure proceedings unless a
workout arrangement to bring the loan current is in place.

 In 1996, the Company sold approximately $554 million of its commercial
mortgage loans in a securitization transaction. In 1997, the Company sold
approximately $445 million of its loans in a second securitization transaction.
The Company continues to service the securitized mortgage loans.

 As a general rule, the Company does not invest directly in real estate.
The investment real estate held by the Company consists largely of properties
obtained through foreclosures or the acquisition of other insurance companies.
In the experience, the appraised value of foreclosed properties often
approximates the mortgage loan balance on the property plus costs of
foreclosure. Also, foreclosed properties often generate a positive cash flow
enabling the Company to hold and manage the property until the property can be
profitably sold.

 The Company has established an allowance for uncollectible amounts on
investments. This allowance was $23.7 million at December 31, 1997.

 Combinations of futures contracts and options on treasury notes are used
as hedges for asset/liability management of certain investments, primarily
mortgage loans on real estate, mortgage-backed securities, and liabilities
arising from interest sensitive products such as GICs and annuities. Realized
investment gains and losses on such contracts are deferred and amortized over
the life of the hedged asset. From time to time the Company has used interest
rate swap contracts to convert certain investments from a variable rate of
interest to a fixed rate of interest and vice versa.

 For further discussion regarding the investments and the
maturity of and the concentration of risk among the invested assets,
see Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



 13





 The following table shows the investment results of the Company for the
years 1993 through 1997:


 CASH, ACCRUED PERCENTAGE
 INVESTMENT INCOME, EARNED ON AVERAGE REALIZED
YEAR ENDED AND INVESTMENTS NET OF CASH INVESTMENT
DECEMBER 31 AT DECEMBER 31 INVESTMENT INCOME AND INVESTMENTS GAINS (LOSSES)
 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

 
 1993 $4,845,167 $362,130 8.7% $5,054
 1994 5,362,016 417,825 8.3 6,298
 1995 6,097,455 475,924 8.2 1,612
 1996 6,743,770 517,483 8.1 5,510
 1997 8,192,538 591,376 8.0 830


 See " DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES" in the 1997
Annual Report to Stockholders for certain information relating to the 
investments and liquidity.


INDEMNITY REINSURANCE

 As is customary in the insurance industry, the insurance
subsidiaries cede insurance to other insurance companies. The ceding insurance
company remains liable with respect to ceded insurance should any reinsurer fail
to meet the obligations assumed by it. The Company sets a limit on the amount of
insurance retained on the life of any one person. In the individual lines it
will not retain more than $500,000, including accidental death benefits, on any
one life; for group insurance, the maximum amount retained on any one life is
$100,000. In many cases the retention is less. At December 31, 1997, the Company
had insurance in force of $89.3 billion of which approximately $34.1 billion was
ceded to reinsurers.


POLICY LIABILITIES AND ACCRUALS

 The applicable insurance laws under which the insurance
subsidiaries operate require that each insurance company report policy
liabilities to meet future obligations on the outstanding policies. These
liabilities are the amounts which, with the additional premiums to be received
and interest thereon compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are
calculated in accordance with applicable law to be sufficient to meet the
various policy and contract obligations as they mature. These laws specify that
the liabilities shall not be less than liabilities calculated using certain
XX mortality tables and interest rates.

 The policy liabilities and accruals carried in the financial
reports (presented on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles)
differ from those specified by the laws of the various states and carried in the
insurance subsidiaries' statutory financial statements (presented on the basis
of statutory accounting principles mandated by state insurance regulation). For
policy liabilities other than those for universal life policies, annuity
contracts, and GICs, these differences arise from the use of mortality and
morbidity tables and interest rate assumptions which are deemed under generally
accepted accounting principles to be more appropriate for financial reporting
purposes than those required for statutory accounting purposes; from the
introduction of lapse assumptions into the calculation; and from the use of the
net level premium

 14





method on all business. Policy liabilities for universal life policies, annuity
contracts, and GICs are carried in the financial reports at the
account value of the policy or contract.


FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSEQUENCES

 The insurance subsidiaries are taxed by the federal
government in a manner similar to companies in other industries. However,
certain restrictions on consolidating life insurance company income with
noninsurance income are applicable to the Company; thus, the Company is not able
to consolidate all of the operating results of its subsidiaries for federal
income tax purposes.

 Under pre-1984 tax law, certain income of the Company was not taxed
currently, but was accumulated in the "Policyholders' Surplus Account" for each
insurance company subsidiary to be taxed only when such income was distributed
to the stockholders or when certain limits on accumulated amounts were exceeded.
Consistent with current tax law, amounts accumulated in the Policyholders'
Surplus Account have been carried forward, although no accumulated income may be
added to these accounts. As of December 31, 1997, the combined Policyholders'
Surplus Accounts for the life insurance subsidiaries of the Company and the
estimated tax which would become payable on these amounts if distributed to
stockholders were $73 million and $26 million, respectively. The Company does
not anticipate any of its life insurance subsidiaries exceeding applicable
limits on amounts accumulated in these accounts and, therefore, does not expect
to involuntarily pay tax on the amounts held therein.


COMPETITION

 Life and health insurance is a mature industry. In recent years, the
industry has experienced virtually no growth in life insurance sales, though the
aging population has increased the demand for retirement savings products. Life
and health insurance is a highly competitive industry and the 
divisions encounter significant competition in all their respective lines from other insurance companies, many of which have greater financial
resources than the Company, as well as competition from other providers of
financial services.

 The life and health insurance industry is consolidating, with larger,
more efficient organizations emerging from consolidation. Also, mutual insurance
companies are converting to stock ownership which will give them greater access
to capital markets.

 Management believes that the ability to compete is dependent
upon, among other things, its ability to attract and retain distribution
channels to market its insurance and investment products, its ability to develop
competitive and profitable products, its ability to maintain low unit costs, and
its maintenance of strong claims-paying and financial strength ratings from
rating agencies.

 The Company competes against other insurance companies and financial
institutions in the origination of commercial mortgage loans.



 15





REGULATION

 The insurance subsidiaries are subject to government
regulation in each of the states in which they conduct business. Such regulation
is vested in state agencies having broad administrative power dealing with all
aspects of the insurance business, including premium rates, marketing practices,
advertising, policy forms, and capital adequacy, and is concerned primarily with
the protection of policyholders rather than stockholders. The Company cannot
predict the form of any future proposals or regulation.

 A life insurance statutory capital is computed according to
rules prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC")
as modified by the insurance state of domicile. Statutory accounting
rules are different from generally accepted accounting principles and are
intended to reflect a more conservative view, for example, requiring immediate
expensing of policy acquisition costs and more conservative computations of
policy liabilities. The risk-based capital requirements require insurance
companies to calculate and report information under a risk-based capital
formula. These requirements are intended to allow insurance regulators to
identify inadequately capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and
mixtures of risks inherent in the operations. The formula includes
components for asset risk, liability risk, interest rate exposure, and other
factors. Based upon the December 31, 1997 statutory financial reports, the
 insurance subsidiaries are adequately capitalized under the formula.

 The insurance subsidiaries are required to file detailed
annual reports with the supervisory agencies in each of the jurisdictions in
which they do business and their business and accounts are subject to
examination by such agencies at any time. Under the rules of the NAIC, insurance
companies are examined periodically (generally every three to five years) by one
or more of the supervisory agencies on behalf of the states in which they do
business. To date, no such insurance department examinations have produced any
significant adverse findings regarding any insurance company subsidiary of the
Company.

 Under insurance guaranty fund laws in most states, insurance companies
doing business in such a state can be assessed up to prescribed limits for
policyholder losses incurred by insolvent or failed insurance companies.
Although the Company cannot predict the amount of any future assessments, most
insurance guaranty fund laws currently provide that an assessment may be excused
or deferred if it would threaten an financial strength. The 
insurance subsidiaries were assessed immaterial amounts in 1997, which will be
partially offset by credits against future state premium taxes.

 In addition, many states, including the states in which the 
insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, have enacted legislation or adopted
regulations regarding insurance holding company systems. These laws require
registration of and periodic reporting by insurance companies domiciled within
the jurisdiction which control or are controlled by other corporations or
persons so as to constitute an insurance holding company system. These laws also
affect the acquisition of control of insurance companies as well as transactions
between insurance companies and companies controlling them. Most states,
including Tennessee, where Protective Life Insurance Company ("Protective Life")
is domiciled, require administrative approval of the acquisition of control of
an insurance company domiciled in the state or the acquisition of control of an
insurance holding company whose insurance subsidiary is incorporated in the
state. In

 16





Tennessee, the acquisition of 10% of the voting securities of an entity is
generally deemed to be the acquisition of control for the purpose of the
insurance holding company statute and requires not only the filing of detailed
information concerning the acquiring parties and the plan of acquisition, but
also administrative approval prior to the acquisition.

 The insurance subsidiaries are subject to various state
statutory and regulatory restrictions on the insurance subsidiaries' ability to
pay dividends to Protective Life Corporation. In general, dividends up to
specified levels are considered ordinary and may be paid without prior approval.
Dividends in larger amounts are subject to approval by the insurance
commissioner of the state of domicile. The maximum amount that would qualify as
ordinary dividends to the Company by Protective Life in 1998 is estimated to be
$154 million. No assurance can be given that more stringent restrictions will
not be adopted from time to time by states in which the insurance
subsidiaries are domiciled, which restrictions could have the effect, under
certain circumstances, of significantly reducing dividends or other amounts
payable to the Company by such subsidiaries without affirmative prior approval
by state regulatory authorities.

 The insurance subsidiaries may act as fiduciaries and may be
subject to regulation by the Department of Labor ("DOL") when providing a
variety of products and services to employee benefit plans governed by the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"). Severe penalties are
imposed by ERISA on fiduciaries which violate prohibited transaction
provisions by breaching their duties to ERISA-covered plans. In a case decided
by the United States Supreme Court in December 1993 (JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY V. HARRIS TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK), the Court concluded that an
insurance company general account contract that had been issued to a pension
plan should be divided into its guaranteed and nonguaranteed components and that
certain ERISA fiduciary obligations applied with respect to the assets
underlying the nonguaranteed components. Although the insurance
subsidiaries have not issued contracts identical to the one involved in HARRIS
TRUST, some of its policies relating to ERISA-covered plans may be deemed to
have nonguaranteed components subject to the principles announced by the Court.

 The full extent to which HARRIS TRUST makes the fiduciary standards and
prohibited transaction provisions of ERISA applicable to all or part of
insurance company general account assets, however, cannot be determined at this
time. The Supreme opinion did not resolve whether the assets at issue in
the case may be subject to ERISA for some purposes and not others. The life
insurance industry requested that the DOL issue exemptions from the prohibited
transaction provisions of ERISA in view of HARRIS TRUST. In July of 1995, the
DOL published, in final form, a prohibited transaction class exemption (PTE
95-60) which exempts from the prohibited transaction rules, prospectively and
retroactively to January 1, 1975, certain transactions engaged in by insurance
company general accounts in which employee benefit plans have an interest. The
exemption does not cover all such transactions, and the insurance industry is
seeking further relief. Pursuant to the Small Business Job Protection Act signed
into law on August 20, 1996, the DOL has published proposed final regulations
attempting to clarify the HARRIS TRUST decision. Until these and other matters
are clarified, the Company is unable to determine whether the decision will
result in any liability and, if so, its nature and scope.

 Existing federal laws and regulations affect the taxation of the
 products. Income tax payable by policyholders on investment earnings
is deferred during the accumulation period of certain life insurance and annuity
products. Congress has from time to time considered

 17





proposals that, if enacted, would have had an adverse impact on the federal
income tax treatment of such products, or would increase the tax-deferred status
of competing products. Currently under consideration is the Fiscal
Year 1999 Budget, submitted to Congress in February 1998, which contains several
proposals that, if enacted, would adversely affect the insurance industry. Three
of these proposals would affect the annuity market by taxing all exchanges
involving a variable annuity contract and all reallocations within variable
annuity contracts, (ii) increasing the tax payable by annuity contract owners at
the time they surrender, withdraw from or annuitize the contract (other than for
life at the guaranteed rates), and (iii) reducing the deductions
available to life insurance companies with respect to their state-mandated
reserves covering obligations to annuity policyholders. In addition, the Budget
proposals, if enacted, would also adversely affect owners of many life insurance
contracts. One of the proposals would impact corporate-owned life insurance by
eliminating or decreasing tax deductions currently available to companies who
purchase life insurance. If these proposals were to be adopted, they could
adversely affect the ability of all life insurance companies, including the
 subsidiaries, to sell such products and could result in the surrender
of existing contracts and policies. Such proposals are likely to be modified as
they are considered for enactment, and it cannot be predicted whether future
legislation will contain provisions that alter the tax treatment of these
products.

 The Federal Government has from time to time advocated changes to the
current health care delivery system which will address both affordability and
availability issues. In addition to the federal initiatives, a number of states
have adopted legislative programs that are intended to affect the accessibility
and affordability of health care. Some states have enacted health care reform
legislation. However, in light of the small relative proportion of the 
earnings attributable to group health insurance, management does not expect that
either the federal or state proposals will have a material adverse effect on the
 earnings.

 The Federal Government has advocated repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act
and certain other legislative changes, which would allow banks to diversify into
securities and othes, including possibly insurance. The ultimate
scope and effective date of any proposals are unknown at this time and are
likely to be modified as they are considered for enactment. It is anticipated
that these proposals may increase competition and, therefore, may adversely
affect the Company.

 Additional issues related to regulation of the Company and its
insurance subsidiaries are discussed in " DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES"
in the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders.


RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

 The Company expects that its various administrative systems will have
the capability to process transactions dated beyond 1999 by the second quarter
of 1998. The costs to complete its efforts to modify or replace such systems are
not expected to be material.

 On March 2, 1998, the Board of Directors approved a
two-for-one split of the Common Stock in the form of a stock dividend
to be distributed April 1, 1998, to the stockholders of record at the close on March 13, 1998.


 18





 On March 11, 1998, the Company announced a definitive agreement under
which the Company will acquire United Dental Care, Inc. ("United Dental Care").
The purchase price per share of United Dental Care common stock is payable in a
combination of $9.31 in cash and 0.14465 shares of the Common Stock
(before taking into account the stock split payable on April 1). The
definitive agreement also establishes collars at $55 and $79 per share of
Protective Common Stock before adjustment for the stock split. The transaction
values United Dental outstanding common stock at approximately $175
million, and is subject to approval by United Dental Care stockholders and
regulators and other customary closing conditions.

 United Dental Care provides dental coverage to over 1.8 million members
and is a leading provider of managed dental plans, providing a broad range of
dental benefit programs to employers and third parties across the U.S. from
offices in 32 major markets. United Dental Care has over 100,000 members in each
of Arizona, Texas, New Jersey, New Mexico, Missouri and Colorado.


EMPLOYEES

 At December 31, 1997 the Company had approximately 1,650 employees,
including approximately 1,075 in Birmingham, Alabama. Most employees are covered
by contributory major medical, dental, group life, and long-term disability
insurance plans. The cost of these benefits in 1997 amounted to approximately
$3.5 million to the Company. In addition, substantially all of the employees are
covered by a pension plan. The Company also matches employee contributions to
its 401 Plan. See Note K to Consolidated Financial Statements.


YEAR 1999, CIK 804269, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

 AFS Funding Corp. is a wholly-owned bankruptcy-remote subsidiary of
 AmeriCredit Financial Services, Inc.; AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables
 Trust 1997-D is a bankruptcy-remote Delaware Business Trust. The Trust was
 formed solely for the purpose of acquiring from AFS Funding Corp. certain
 motor vehicle retail installment sales contracts (the "Contracts") and
 interests in the automobiles underlying the contracts, and securitizing the
 contracts through the issuance of debt securities (the "Notes"). As
 bankruptcy-remote entities, AFS Funding Corp. and the Trust are restricted
 so that they do not engage with, or incur liabilities to,
 any other entity (other than the Trustee on behalf of the holders of the
 Notes) which may bring bankruptcy proceedings against AFS Funding Corp. or
 the Trust and the risk that they will be consolidated into the
 bankruptcy proceedings of any other entity is diminished. AFS Funding
 Corp. and the Trust have no other assets other than the Contracts and an
 interest in the automobiles underlying the Contracts, and proceeds thereof.

YEAR 1998, CIK 5513, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

 Provident Companies, Inc. (the "Company") is a Delaware business corporation.
The Company is the parent holding company for a group of insurance companies
that collectively operate in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto
Rico, and Canada. The two principal operating subsidiaries are
Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company ("Accident") and The Paul Revere
Life Insurance Company ("Paul Revere Life"). The Company, through its
subsidiaries, is the largest provider of individual disability insurance and the
second largest overall disability insurer in North America on the basis of in-
force premiums. It also provides a complementary portfolio of life insurance
products, including life insurance, employer- and employee-paid group benefits,
and related services.

 Since 1994, the Company has completed a comprehensive corporate repositioning
that has prepared it to support growth and increase stockholder value. A new
management team headed by J. Harold Chandler, who joined the Company in November
1993, initiated a strategic review of the business. As a result of its review,
management refocused the strategy to serve the individual and
employee benefits insurance markets, (ii) leverage the disability
insurance expertise, (iii) utilize multiple distribution channels to reach
broader market segments, and (iv) more closely align the interests of the
 employees with those of its stockholders.

 The Company has successfully undertaken a number of major initiatives in
pursuing this strategy. Specifically, the Company sold its group medical
business for $231.0 million in cash and stock, (ii) began winding down its
guaranteed investment contracts ("GIC") business which carried high capital
requirements, (iii) reduced the annual dividend on the Common Stock from $0.52
to $0.40 per share on a split-adjusted basis to preserve capital to fund future
growth, (iv) simplified the corporate legal structure and eliminated a dual
class of common stock that had special voting rights in order to present a more
conventional corporate structure profile to the investing market, sold in
six transactions $1,459.6 million in commercial mortgage loans as part of
repositioning its investment portfolio, (vi) restructured its marketing and
distribution channels, along with the support areas of product development,
underwriting, and claims, to better reach and serve individual and employee
benefits customers, (vii) strengthened its claims management procedures in the
disability income insurance business, on which the Company took a $423.0 million
pre-tax charge in the third quarter of 1993 to strengthen reserves on a portion
of that block , and (viii) began restructuring its disability income
products to discontinue over a reasonable period the sale of policies which
combined noncancelable contracts with long-term own-occupation provisions and to
offer in their place an income replacement contract with more reasonable limits
and better pricing for elective provisions.

 3

 
 The acquisitions of Paul Revere and GENEX Services, Inc. ("Genex") in early
1997 and the disposition of certain non-core lines are recent
accomplishments under the strategic plan. These actions strengthen the
 disability insurance capabilities and enable the Company to offer a
comprehensive and well-focused portfolio of products and services to its
customers. Paul Revere is a specialist in disability insurance, with $972.8
million of disability premium income (86 percent of its total premium income) in
1996. From 1989 through 1996 it was the largest provider of individual
disability insurance in the United States and Canada on the basis of in-force
premiums. By combining Paul operations with those of the Company, the
Company has begun to realize significant operating efficiencies, including
leveraging both companies' knowledge of disability risks, specialized claims and
underwriting skills, and sales expertise. The Company also has begun to realize
cost savings as a result of combining the corporate, administrative, and
financial operations of the two companies.

 Genex provides the Company with specialized skills in disability case
management and vocational rehabilitation that advance the goal of
providing products that enable disabled policyholders to return to work. Genex
provides a full range of disability management services, including worksite
injury management, telephonic early intervention services for injured workers,
medical case management, vocational rehabilitation, and disability cost
analysis, to third party administrators, corporate clients, and insurance
companies. It employs 1,300 people, including 1,100 medical and vocational
rehabilitation experts, in 120 offices in the United States and Canada. In
addition to its historical focus on the compensation market, Genex and
the Company are now working together to offer customized disability programs for
the employee benefits market that are intended to integrate and simplify
coverages, control costs, and improve efficiency for employers with significant
disability and related claims. The Company also expects Genex to play an
increasingly significant role in helping the Company to manage its own exposure
to individual and group disability claims.

 As it has acquired operations that complement its core business, the Company
has also continued to exit non-core lines. On June 30, 1997, the Company
announced that it had agreed to transfer its dental business to Ameritas Life
Insurance Corp. ("Ameritas"). The dental block, which was acquired in the Paul
Revere Merger, produced $48.3 million in premium income in 1996 and $39.2
million in 1997. The full transition of the dental business to Ameritas was
completed in November 1997.

 On December 8, 1997, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell
 in-force individual and tax-sheltered annuity business to various
affiliates of American General Corporation ("American General"). The in-force
business being sold consists primarily of individual fixed annuities and 
tax-sheltered annuities in Accident, Provident National Assurance Company
("National"), Paul Revere Life, The Paul Revere Protective Life Insurance
Company ("Paul Revere Protective") and The Paul Revere Variable

 4

 
Annuity Insurance Company ("Paul Revere Variable"). American General is also
acquiring a number of miscellaneous group pension lines sold in the
 and which are no longer actively marketed. In addition, pursuant
to an administrative services agreement, American General will be providing
administrative services to registered separate accounts of Paul Revere Variable
and National. The Company and American General have agreed to request that
contract holders of contracts issued under the separate accounts exchange the
separate account contracts for contracts to be issued by a subsidiary of
American General. The sale does not include the block of traditional
GICs or group single premium annuities, which will continue in a run-off mode
until such time as these blocks are completely discontinued. In consideration
for the transfer of the annuity reserves, American General is paying the Company
a ceding commission of approximately $58.0 million. The annuities being sold to
American General represent approximately $2.4 billion of statutory reserves. The
transaction, which is subject to requisite regulatory approvals and certain
other conditions, is expected to close in the second quarter of 1998.


BUSINESS STRATEGIES

 The objective is to grow its business and improve its profitability
by continuing to follow the strategies set forth below.

 Serve the Individual and Employee Benefits Markets. The Company believes
 that the broad individual and employee benefits insurance markets are
attractive for a company with its specialty focus on disability insurance.
First, the Company believes disability insurers have not traditionally served
the broad potential demand for protection against loss of income due
to disability, as evidenced by the size. The total in-force premium
from disability products is approximately $9 billion, compared to $50 billion
for annuities and $97 billion for life insurance. The Company believes that if
it is responsive to the needs of its markets, there is opportunity for growth
in the disability industry.

 Second, individual disability insurance has traditionally been sold primarily
in the medical and physician markets, where market penetration has been
significant. The Company believes that expanding its marketing to other market
segments offers greater opportunities for growth. The penetration of the
attorney, executive, and professional markets, for example, is far less than
that of the medical and physician markets. The market of middle managers and
front-line workers has not been significantly developed by individual disability
insurers. Each of these markets is significantly larger than the medical and
physician market. The strategy is to design products and services that
meet the needs of these underpenetrated market segments, offering them both
individual disability insurance and related life insurance, as well as other
products.

 Third, the Company believes that the markets for group disability insurance
are also underpenetrated. The Company is focused on creating 

 5

 
customized solutions for employee benefits customers that include group
disability insurance and related employee- and employer-paid benefits as well as
disability management services. The employee benefits market is undergoing a
change as employers seek to simplify coverages, control costs, and improve
efficiency. The Company has positioned itself to package its products and
services to meet this growing demand for managed disability programs and 24-hour
coverage.

 The Company encourages its sales representatives and producers to respond to
the needs of customers by cross-selling complementary products to each account.
In the past several years, for example, the Company has made ease of meeting
customers' needs the priority for its information systems investments. The
Company can now offer combined proposals that include pre-approved life
insurance with individual disability policies and bill a range of voluntary
product offerings through a single payroll deduction entry on an 
paycheck. The Company has also recently introduced new employee and producer
compensation plans that reward the sale of several of the products
rather than single product sales, including grants of stock options to selected
producers and a new multi-line producer compensation plan designed to leverage a
 production and overall compensation.

 Leverage Disability Insurance Expertise and Risk Management Skills. In
 
serving its markets, the Company leads with its disability insurance expertise.
The Company is the largest provider of individual disability insurance with $1.4
billion of premium income in 1997 (pro forma for the Paul Revere Merger), and
the second largest overall disability insurer in North America, on the basis of
in-force premiums, with an additional $302.6 million of group disability
insurance premium (pro forma). The skills required for disability risk
management are more highly specialized than those used in managing the risk of
other life insurance products. The Company believes that its risk management
skills represent a competitive advantage in the disability businesses. The
Company has made a number of recent improvements to its capabilities. In the
claims management area, for example, the Company has shifted from a geographic
distribution of workflow to an organization focused on impairments (psychiatric,
orthopedic, cardiac, and general medical) in order to provide claimants with
more specialized attention. The addition of case management and
vocational rehabilitation expertise has enabled the Company to further refine
its efforts to assist disabled claimants to return to gainful employment.

 Utilize Multiple Distribution Channels to Reach Different Market Segments.
 
The experience is that different distribution channels reach different
market segments. Therefore, its strategy is to distribute its products through a
number of channels in order to reach the broad individual and employee benefits
markets. The Company distributes its individual products primarily through
independent insurance brokers and agents, corporate marketing agreements
with other insurance companies, associations, and 

 6

 
financial institutions. It distributes employee benefits products primarily
through brokers, benefits consultants, and a direct sales force that calls on
large corporations. All products and distribution channels are supported through
a network of 70 integrated sales and service offices in the United States, nine
offices in Canada, and non-field sales organizations located in Chattanooga,
Tennessee, Worcester, Massachusetts and Burlington, Ontario.

 The Company believes there are substantial opportunities to increase sales by
improving the productivity of each of these distribution channels and opening
new distribution channels for its products. For example, the National Accounts
distribution system, which involves the sales of the products by
agents of other insurance companies, generates sales from a small percentage of
the agents of the National Account companies. A major focus for 1998 is
increasing the penetration of these National Account relationships.

 Align the Interests of the Employees and Producers With Those of its
 Stockholders. The strategic plan is supported by the goal of raising
 
employee stock ownership in the Company. Beginning in 1994, the Company shifted
its long-term cash compensation program for executives to a stock-based plan,
introduced ownership requirements of several times salary for executive
management, and instituted stock option and share grant plans for executive and
middle management. The Company continued to introduce new programs to encourage
ownership in 1995, establishing an employee stock purchase plan open to all
employees, introducing stock-based incentive awards, and expanding the option
program to field sales employees. Most recently, the Company has created a
stock-based plan for executives' short-term compensation and has expanded its
option plans to producers who meet certain sales and profitability goals. These
programs are intended to more closely align the interests of employees,
producers, and stockholders.

 Prior to the implementation of these programs in 1994, there was little
employee ownership of Common Stock. The Company had 1,128,434 outstanding
options for shares of Common Stock on a split-adjusted basis as of December 31,
1993. As of December 31, 1997, employees owned more than 550,000 shares of
Common Stock through the employee stock purchase and 401 plans, and the
Company had 6,938,108 outstanding options for shares of Common Stock.
Approximately 50 percent of employees participate in one or more of
these stock ownership programs.


REPORTING SEGMENTS

 The Company is organized around its customers, with reporting segments that
reflect its major market segments: Individual Life and Disability and Employee
Benefits. The Other Operations segment includes products that the Company no
longer actively markets. The Individual Life and Disability reporting
segment includes individual
 7

 
disability insurance and individual life insurance. The Employee Benefits
segment includes group long- and short-term disability insurance, group life
insurance, accident and sickness and accidental death and dismemberment
coverages, and voluntary benefits (employer-sponsored individual products sold
at the worksite through payroll deduction). For 1997, the Employee Benefits
segment also includes the results of Genex. The Other Operations
segment includes the results from products the Company no longer actively
markets, including GICS, group single premium annuities, corporate-owned life
insurance ("COLI"), the group medical business sold in 1995, the Paul Revere
dental insurance business, individual annuities, and medical stop-loss
insurance.

 Individual Life and Disability. The Individual Life and Disability segment
 
includes the results of disability and life products sold to policyholders on an
individual basis. Individual disability comprises the majority of the segment,
with $1,207.7 million of premium income in 1997 and $1,413.4 million of premium
income on a pro forma basis. Individual life insurance products generated $78.9
million of premium income in 1997 and $86.9 million of premium income on a pro
forma basis.

 Individual disability income insurance provides the insured with a portion of
earned income lost as a result of sickness or injury. Under an individual
disability income policy, monthly benefits generally are fixed at the time the
policy is written. The benefits typically range from 30 percent to 75 percent of
the monthly earned income. Various options with respect to length of
benefit periods and waiting periods before payment begins are available and
permit tailoring of the policy to a specific needs. Provident
also markets individual disability income policies which include payments for
transfer ownership and business overhead expenses. Individual
disability income products do not provide for the accumulation of cash values.

 Premium rates for these products are varied by age, sex, and occupation based
on assumptions concerning morbidity, persistency, policy related expenses, and
investment income. The Company develops its assumptions based on its own claims
experience and published industry tables. The underwriters evaluate
the medical and financial condition of prospective policyholders prior to the
issuance of a policy.

 Almost all of the in-force individual disability income insurance
was written on a noncancelable basis. Under a noncancelable policy, as long as
the insured continues to pay the fixed annual premium for the duration,
the policy cannot be canceled by the Company nor can the premium be raised. Due
to the noncancelable, fixed premium nature of the policies marketed in the past,
profitability of this part of the business of Accident and Provident Life and
Casualty Insurance Company (collectively "Provident") is largely dependent upon
achieving the morbidity and interest rate assumptions set in the 1993 loss
recognition study with respect to the
 8

 
business written in 1993 and prior and those set in the pricing 
written after 1993. The profitability of the Paul Revere business will be
largely dependent on meeting the assumptions included in the purchase accounting
adjustments recorded in connection with the Paul Revere Merger. As of December
31, 1997, reserves were adequate for Provident and for Paul Revere. See
" Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" on pages 28 to 29 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
ended December 31, 1997, incorporated herein by reference.

 In November 1994, the Company announced its intention to discontinue selling
individual noncancelable contracts with long-term own-occupation provisions
(other than conversion policies available under existing contractual
arrangements), lifetime benefits, and high maximum issue and participation
limits that were identified as the cause of the 1993 loss recognition. The
Company is phasing out the sale of these traditional noncancelable, long-term
own-occupation contracts over a reasonable period of time during which such
products are being modified and repriced and is focusing on replacing them with
a noncancelable loss of earnings ("LE") contract.

 In contrast to traditional noncancelable own-occupation policies, for which
benefits are determined based on whether the insured can work in his or her
original occupation, the LE policy requires the policyholder to satisfy two
conditions for benefits to begin: reduced ability to work due to accident or
sickness and earnings loss of at least 20 percent. These policies are aimed at
repositioning the individual disability income product by making it more
attractive to a broader market of individual consumers, including middle to
upper income individuals and corporate benefit buyers.

 The life insurance offerings include term, universal life, and
interest-sensitive life insurance products. Universal life products provide
permanent life insurance with adjustable interest rates applied to the cash
value and are designed to achieve specific policyholder objectives such as
higher accumulation values and/or flexibility with respect to amount of coverage
and premium payments. The principal difference between fixed premium and
universal life insurance policies centers around policy provisions affecting the
amount and timing of premium payments. Under universal life policies,
policyholders may vary the frequency and size of their premium payments, and
policy benefits may fluctuate accordingly. Premium payments under the fixed
premium policies are not variable by the policyholder and, as a result,
generally reflect lower administrative costs than universal life products for
which extensive monitoring of premium payments and policy benefits is required.

 The largest number of ordinary life policies sold in 1996 and 1997 were ten-
year level-term policies. These products have level premiums for an 

 9

 
initial ten-year period after which the policyholder may resubmit to the
underwriting process and possibly qualify for a new ten year period at the
attained age premiums; otherwise, premiums revert to a yearly renewable term
premium which increases annually. When measured by annualized premiums,
universal life with the flexibility and features described above was the largest
product category sold by Provident in this segment in recent years. Paul
 largest product category is interest-sensitive whole life insurance.

 Premium rates for the life insurance products are based on
assumptions as to future mortality, investment yields, expenses, and lapses.
Although a margin for profit is included in setting premium rates, the actual
profitability of products is significantly affected by the variation of actual
experience from assumed experience. Profitability of fixed premium products is
also dependent upon investment income on reserves. The profitability of
interest-sensitive products is determined primarily by the ultimate underwriting
experience and the ability to maintain anticipated investment spreads. The
Company believes that the historical claims experience for these products has
been satisfactory.

 From the viewpoint, the risks involved with interest-sensitive
products include actual versus assumed mortality, achieving investment returns
that at least equal the current declared rate, competitive position of declared
rates on the policies, meeting the contractually guaranteed minimum crediting
rate, and recovery of policy acquisition costs. From the 
perspective, the risk involved with interest-sensitive products is whether or
not the declared rates on the policy will compare favorably with the returns
available elsewhere in the marketplace.

 Employee Benefits. The Employee Benefits segment includes the results of
 
group products sold to employers for the benefit of employees and individual
products sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction at the worksite
("voluntary benefits products"). The Employee Benefits product
offerings include disability, permanent and term life insurance, accident and
sickness, accidental death and dismemberment, and cancer products. Group life
comprises the majority of the segment, with $265.8 million of premium income in
1997 ($281.3 million of premium income on a pro forma basis). Group disability
generated $249.1 million of premium income in 1997 ($302.6 million of premium
income on a pro forma basis). See " Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 30 to 31 of the Annual
Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997, incorporated herein
by reference.

 Group long-term disability insurance provides employees with insurance
coverage for loss of income in the event of extended work absences due to
sickness or injury. Services are offered to employers and insureds to encourage
and facilitate rehabilitation, retraining, and re-employment. Premiums for this
product are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus
provisions for administrative expenses and profit. Some cases, however, carry
experience rating provisions. Premiums for experience 

 10

 
rated group disability business are based on the expected experience of the
client given their industry group, adjusted for the credibility of the specific
claim experience of the client. A few accounts are handled on an administrative
services only basis with responsibility for funding claim payments remaining
with the customer.

 Profitability of group disability insurance is affected by deviations of
actual claims experience from expected claims experience and the ability of the
Company to control its administrative expenses. Morbidity is an important factor
in disability claims experience. Also important is the general state of the
economy; for example, during a recession the incidence of claims tends to
increase under this type of insurance. In general, experience rated disability
coverage for large groups has narrower profit margins and represents less risk
to the Company than business of this type sold to small employers. This is
because the Company must bear all of the risk of adverse claims experience in
small case coverages while larger employers often bear much of this risk
themselves. For disability coverages, case management and rehabilitation
activities with regard to claims, along with appropriate pricing and expense
control, are important factors contributing to profitability.

 Group life insurance consists primarily of renewable term life insurance with
the coverages frequently linked to employees' wages. Profitability in group life
is affected by deviations of actual claims experience from expected claims
experience and the ability of the Company to control administrative expenses.
The Company also markets several group benefits products and services including
accident and sickness indemnity, accidental death and dismemberment policies,
and life and health benefits packages for affinity groups.

 Voluntary benefits products are offered through employer-sponsored payroll
deduction programs. in-force business in 1997 consisted primarily of
universal life and interest-sensitive life products as well as health products,
principally intermediate disability income policies. Profitability in voluntary
benefits is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency,
deviations of actual morbidity and mortality experience from expected 
experience, and the ability of the Company to control administrative expenses.

 Other Operations. The Other Operations segment includes the results of GICs,
 group SPAs, a closed block of COLI, the medical services business sold in 1995,
individual annuities, Paul dental insurance business, medical stop-loss
insurance, and any capital and assets that are not allocated to the principal
business segments. See Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations on pages 31 to 33 of the Annual Report to 
Stockholders for the year ended December 31 1997, incorporated herein by 
reference.
 11

 
 GIC products include traditional GICs, separate account GICs, and synthetic
GICs, in which the assets underlying the contract continue to be owned and
retained by the trustee of the contract holder instead of the Company. In the
first quarter of 1997, the Company announced that the synthetic GIC business was
being sold through an assumptive reinsurance transaction. The sale, which was
subject to the approval of the contract holders and respective state regulators,
was completed in January 1998.

 Traditional GICs have comprised a major portion of this products
sold since 1982. Under traditional GICs, the Company guarantees the principal
and interest to the contract holder for a specified period, generally three to
five years. The Company marketed GICs for use in corporate tax-qualified
retirement plans and derives profits from GICs on the spread between the amount
of interest earned on invested funds and the fixed rate guaranteed in the GIC.
Separate account GICs, which were introduced in 1992, differ from traditional
GICs in that the assets underlying the contract are segregated from the general
account of Provident and held solely for the benefit of the specific contract
involved. In December 1994, Provident discontinued the sale of traditional GICs,
but continues to service its block of existing business. Sales of separate
account GICs were discontinued in 1996, and none remained at December 31, 1997.
See ''--Reserves.'' Group SPAs are used as funding vehicles primarily when
defined benefit pension plans are terminated. The Company also offers annuities
as an employer-sponsored option for retirees receiving their distributions from
401 plans. Pursuant to a group SPA contract, the Company receives a one-time
premium payment and in turn agrees to pay a fixed monthly retirement benefit to
specified employees. Sales of group SPAs were discontinued in 1996. Traditional
GICs accounted for $1,603.6 million and group SPAs accounted for $1,199.1
million of accumulated funds under management at December 31, 1997.

 The Company believes that there are three primary sources of risk associated
with traditional GICs and group SPAs. Underwriting risk represents the risk
that a GIC has been priced properly to reflect the risk of withdrawal and for
group SPAs, that the mortality rates and the ages and frequency at which
annuitants will retire have been accurately projected. Asset/liability risk
represents the risk that the investments purchased to back the GIC or group SPA
will adequately match the future cash flows. Investment risk represents the risk
that the underlying investments backing the GICs and group SPAs will perform
according to the expectations of the Company at the time of purchase.

 COLI is a tax-leveraged policy sold from 1983 to 1990, with most of the block
having been sold before June 21, 1986. Beginning in 1986, Congress began to
enact tax legislation that significantly reduced the ability of policyholders to
deduct policy loan interest on these products which detracted from the internal
rate of return which theretofore had been available. In 1988, Congress went
further by enacting legislation that had adverse tax consequences for
distributions/policy loans from modified endowment contracts. 

 12


 
Under this legislation, new sales of the majority of COLI products
would have been subject to adverse tax treatment as modified endowment contracts
due to their high premium level. As a consequence, many of these products were
withdrawn, and revised products which would not be considered modified endowment
contracts were introduced. Policies issued prior to June 21, 1986, however, were
grandfathered from the modified endowment provisions. In 1996, Congress enacted
tax legislation which generally eliminates tax deductions for policy loan
interest on COLI products issued on or after June 21, 1986.

 Medical stop-loss insurance is provided to protect the insured against
significant adverse claims experience with respect to group medical coverage.
Under a variety of stop-loss arrangements, the Company charges a premium in
exchange for an obligation that it will absorb (or reimburse the employer or
plan for) claims in excess of a stated amount on an aggregate or individual
basis. Profitability in medical stop-loss arrangements depends upon the ability
of the Company to accurately predict actual claim trends relative to expected
trends, predict rates of medical cost inflation, and analyze the claim practices
of the underlying plan.

 The individual annuities block is to be sold to American General
under a reinsurance agreement signed on December 8, 1997, and the sale is
expected to close in the second quarter of 1998.

REINSURANCE

 The Company routinely reinsures portions of its business with other insurance
companies. In a reinsurance transaction a reinsurer agrees to indemnify another
insurer for part or all of its liability under a policy or policies it has
issued for an agreed upon premium. The maximum amount of risk retained by the
Company and not reinsured is $1 million on any individual life insured and
$500,000 on individual accidental death insurance. The amount of risk retained
by the Company on individual disability income products varies by policy type
and year of issue. The Company also reinsures against catastrophic losses in the
Employee Benefits segment. Since the ceding of reinsurance by the Company does
not discharge its primary liability to the policyholder, the Company has control
procedures with regard to reinsurance ceded. These procedures include the
exchange and review of financial statements filed with regulatory authorities,
exchange of Insurance Regulatory Information System results, review of ratings
by A.M. Best Co., determination of states in which the reinsurer is licensed to
do business, on-site visits before entering a contract to assess the operations
and management of the reinsurer, consideration of the need for collateral, such
as letters of credit, and audits of the reinsurance activities by its
Internal Audit staff. The Company also assumes reinsurance from other insurers.

 13

 
RESERVES

 The applicable insurance laws under which insurance companies operate require
that they report, as liabilities, policy reserves to meet future obligations on
their outstanding policies. These reserves are the amounts which, with the
additional premiums to be received and interest thereon compounded annually at
certain assumed rates, are calculated to be sufficient to meet the various
policy and contract obligations as they mature. These laws specify that the
reserves shall not be less than reserves calculated using certain specified
mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates, and methods of valuation. The
reserves reported in the financial statements incorporated herein by
reference are calculated based on generally accepted accounting principles
("GAAP") and differ from those specified by the laws of the various states and
carried in the statutory financial statements of the life insurance
subsidiaries. These differences arise from the use of mortality and morbidity
tables and interest assumptions which are believed to be more representative of
the actual business than those required for statutory accounting purposes and
from differences in actuarial reserving methods.

 The consolidated statements of income include the annual change in reserves
for future policy and contract benefits. The change reflects a normal accretion
for premium payments and interest buildup and decreases for policy terminations
such as lapses, deaths, and annuity benefit payments.

 In addition to reserves for future policy and contract benefits, the Company
maintains a balance sheet liability for policyholders' funds. Policyholders'
funds, as shown on the consolidated statements of financial condition
as of December 31, 1997, were $4,194.9 million. Of this amount, $1,603.6 million
reflected the outstanding GICs, the maturity of which is as follows
(in millions):


 
 1 year or less$ 830.8 
 Over 1 year but less than 2 years 572.5 
 Over 2 years but less than 3 years 167.9 
 Over 3 years 32.4
 Total$1,603.6 
 

 
 In the third quarter of 1996, Paul Revere recorded a reserve strengthening of
$380.0 million before income taxes. The reserve strengthening recorded was
prompted by the results of a comprehensive study of the adequacy of its
individual disability reserves under GAAP completed in October 1996. In
connection with such reserve study, Paul Revere received an actuarial report
from an independent actuarial firm, which report concluded that the net
individual disability reserves of $2.2 billion reported by Paul Revere at
September 30, 1996, which reflected the $380.0 million reserve strengthening

 14

 
adjustment, were adequate on a GAAP basis, based on the assumptions reflected
therein.

 Subsequently, Paul Revere completed, in cooperation with the Division of 
Insurance of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the Massachusetts Division of
Insurance"), a comprehensive study of the adequacy of its statutory individual
disability reserves, as a result of which Paul statutory reserves were
increased by $144.0 million before income taxes. Pursuant to an agreement with
the Company, dated as of April 29, 1996, Textron Inc. ("Textron"), then the
largest shareholder of Paul Revere, contributed to Paul Revere $121.0 million,
representing the amount of required statutory reserve increases, net of tax
benefits.

 See "Risk Factors--Reserves".


COMPETITION

 There is intense competition among insurance companies for the individual and
group insurance products of the types sold by the Company. At the end of 1997,
there were over 2,000 legal reserve life insurance companies in the United
States, many offering one or more insurance products similar to those marketed
by the Company. The principal competitors in the employee benefits
market include the largest insurance companies in the United States, many of
which have substantially greater financial resources and larger staffs than the
Company. In addition, in the individual life market, the Company competes with
banks, investment advisers, mutual funds, and other financial entities for
investment of savings and retirement funds in general. In the individual and
group disability markets, the Company competes in the United States and Canada
with a limited number of major companies and regionally with other companies
offering specialty products.

 All areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the
yearly renewable term nature of the products and the large number of insurance
companies offering products in this market. The Company competes with other
companies in attracting and retaining independent agents and brokers to actively
market its products. The principal competitive factors affecting the Company are price and quality of service.


REGULATION

 The Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to detailed regulation
and supervision in the jurisdictions in which each does business. With respect
to the insurance subsidiaries, such regulation and supervision is primarily for
the protection of policyholders rather than for the benefit of investors or
creditors. Although the extent of such regulation varies, state 

 15

 
insurance laws generally establish supervisory agencies with broad
administrative powers.

 These supervisory and administrative powers relate chiefly to the granting and
revocation of the licenses to transact business, the licensing of agents, the
approval of policy forms, reserve requirements, and the form and XXof
required financial statements. As to the type and amounts of its investments,
the insurance subsidiaries must meet the standards and tests
promulgated by the insurance laws and regulations of Tennessee, Massachusetts,
New York, Delaware, and certain other states in which they conduct business.

 The Company and its insurance subsidiaries are required to file various,
usually quarterly and/or annual, financial statements and are subject to
periodic and intermittent review with respect to their financial condition and
other matters by the various departments having jurisdiction in the states in
which they do business. The last such examination of the Provident insurance
subsidiaries was completed on April 30, 1997, and covered operations for the
five-year period ending December 31, 1995. The final report was issued in the
second quarter of 1997 and no objections were raised by the reviewing
authorities as a result of that examination. The field work related to the last
financial examination of Paul Revere Life and Paul Revere Variable was completed
on March 27, 1997, and covered the operations for the four-year period ending
December 31, 1994. As a result of the examination, statutory reserves were
increased by $35.0 million, which adjustment was reflected in the statutory
financial statements of Paul Revere Life as of December 31, 1995. The scope of
the examination was extended to include a review of the individual disability
income reserves as of September 30, 1996. As a result of that review, which was
completed on February 5, 1997, Paul Revere Life was required to increase its
statutory reserves by $144.0 million on a pre-tax basis or $121.0 million on an
after-tax basis. As a result of the reserve strengthening required, the former
parent of Paul Revere Life made additional capital contributions totaling $121.0
million: $83.5 million was contributed in December 1996 and the balance of $37.5
million was contributed on February 5, 1997. Paul Revere Protective is currently
undergoing a financial examination for the three-year period ending December 31,
1996. As of March 1, 1998, no issues or objections had been raised.

 The laws of the states of Tennessee, Massachusetts, New York, and Delaware
require the registration of and periodic reporting by insurance companies
domiciled within their jurisdiction which control or are controlled by other
corporations or persons so as to constitute a holding company system. The
Company is registered as a holding company system in Tennessee, Massachusetts,
New York, and Delaware. The holding company statutes require periodic disclosure
concerning stock ownership and prior approval of certain intercompany
transactions within the holding company system. The Company may 

 16

 
from time to time be subject to regulation under the insurance and insurance
holding company statutes of one or more additional states. See "
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on
page 33 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1997, incorporated herein by reference.

 The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") and insurance
regulators are re-examining existing laws and regulations and their application
to insurance companies. In particular, this re-examination has focused on
insurance company investment and solvency issues and, in some instances, has
resulted in new interpretations of existing law, the development of new laws,
and the implementation of non-statutory guidelines. The NAIC has formed
committees and appointed advisory groups to study and formulate regulatory
proposals on such diverse issues as the use of surplus notes, accounting for
reinsurance transactions, and the adoption of risk-based capital rules. The NAIC
is currently in the process of recodifying statutory accounting practices, the
result of which is expected to standardize prescribed statutory accounting
practices. Accordingly, this project, which is expected to be completed in 1998,
will likely change, to some extent, prescribed statutory accounting practices
and may result in changes to the accounting practices that the 
insurance subsidiaries use to prepare their statutory financial statements.


RISK FACTORS
 Any one or more of the following factors may cause the actual
results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those
expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company.


RESERVES

 The Company maintains reserves for future policy benefits and unpaid claims
expenses which include policy reserves and claim reserves established for its
individual disability insurance, group insurance, and individual life insurance
products. Policy reserves represent the portion of premiums received which are
reserved to provide for future claims. Claim reserves are established for
future payments not yet due on claims already incurred, primarily relating to
individual disability and group disability insurance products. Reserves,
whether calculated under GAAP or statutory accounting practices, do not
represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead
estimates made by the Company using actuarial and statistical procedures. There
can be no assurance that any such reserves would be sufficient to fund future
liabilities of the Company in all circumstances. Future loss development could
require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings

 17

 
in current and future periods. Adjustments to reserve amounts may be required in
the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the
incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of
inflation and other societal and economic factors), persistency, mortality, and
interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts.


CAPITAL ADEQUACY

 The capacity for an insurance growth in premiums is in part a
function of its statutory surplus. Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory
surplus, as measured by state insurance regulators, is considered important by
state insurance regulatory authorities and the private agencies that rate
insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. Failure to maintain
certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory
scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities or a downgrade by the private
rating agencies.

 Effective in 1993, the NAIC adopted a risk-based capital ("RBC") formula,
which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and
surplus for all life and health insurers. The basis of the system is a risk-
based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a
life and health insurer to report a minimum capital requirement
proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. The life and health
RBC formula is designed to measure annually the risk of loss from asset
defaults and asset value fluctuation, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse
mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of
asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business
risks. The formula is to be used as an early warning tool to identify companies
that are potentially inadequately capitalized. The formula is intended to be
used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers
generally.

 Based on computations made by the Company in accordance with the prescribed
life and health RBC formula, each of the life insurance subsidiaries
exceeded the minimum capital requirements at December 31, 1997.

 During 1995 and 1996, the Massachusetts Division of Insurance conducted a
quadrennial examination of Paul Revere Life and Paul Revere Variable for the
period ended December 31, 1994. In connection with this examination, as well as
in consideration of a comprehensive study undertaken by Paul Revere in 1995 and
early 1996 of its statutory reserves, Paul Revere Life and Paul Revere
Protective strengthened their individual disability statutory reserves by a
combined total of $35.0 million and reflected this strengthening in the annual
statutory financial statements for the year ended December 31, 1995.

 18

 
 During the third quarter of 1996, Paul Revere initiated a comprehensive study
of the adequacy of its individual disability reserves under GAAP and under
statutory accounting principles to consider experience through September 30,
1996. The results of such study prompted Paul Revere to strengthen its GAAP
individual disability reserves by $380.0 million before taxes in the quarter
ended September 30, 1996. The Massachusetts Division of Insurance subsequently
updated its examination of Paul statutory reserves to review the
results of Paul statutory reserve study, with the result that Paul
 statutory reserves were strengthened by $144.0 million before income
taxes. In connection with the Paul Revere Merger, Textron, the principal
stockholder of Paul Revere, contributed $121.0 million, representing the amount
of the statutory reserve increases, net of tax benefits, as additional capital
to Paul Revere prior to the effective time of the Paul Revere Merger.

DISABILITY INSURANCE

 Disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic,
governmental, competitive, and other factors. Changes in societal attitudes,
work ethics, motivation, stability, and mores can significantly affect the
demand for and underwriting results from disability products. Economic
conditions affect not only the market for disability products, but also
significantly affect the claims rates and length of claims. The climate and the
nature of competition in disability insurance have also been markedly affected
by the growth of Social Security, compensation, and other governmental
programs in the workplace. The nature of that portion of the 
outstanding insurance business that consists of noncancelable disability
policies, whereby the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of
the policy at a fixed premium, does not permit the Company to adjust its
premiums on business in-force on account of changes resulting from such factors.
Disability insurance products are important products for the Company. To the
extent that disability products are adversely affected in the future as to sales
or claims, the business or results of operations of the Company could be
materially adversely affected.


INDUSTRY FACTORS

 All of the Companyes are highly regulated and competitive. The
 profitability is affected by a number of factors, including rate
competition, frequency and severity of claims, lapse rates, government
regulation, interest rates, and general business considerations. There are many
insurance companies which actively compete with the Company in its lines , some of which are larger and have greater financial resources than the
Company, and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to compete
effectively against such companies in the future.

 19

 
 In recent years, some U.S. life insurance companies have faced claims,
including class-action lawsuits, alleging various improper sales practices in
the sales of certain types of life insurance products. These claims often relate
to the selling of whole life and universal life policies that accumulate cash
values which may be utilized to fund the cost of the insurance in later years of
the policy. Due to subsequent reductions in dividends or interest credited or
due to other factors, the cash values have not accumulated sufficiently to cover
costs of insurance, resulting in the need for ongoing premium payments. Although
never a principal product line for the Company or Paul Revere, both companies
have sold a modest amount of interest sensitive whole life and universal life
policies. Paul Revere Variable has been XX as a defendant in a lawsuit filed
in New Jersey state court related to the sale of certain universal life
policies. The plaintiff in such lawsuit seeks to represent a national class of
Paul Revere Variable policyholders. This case is in an early stage and has not
been certified as a class action. In addition, Accident is a defendant in two
lawsuits filed by individuals related to the sale of certain life insurance
policies. The Company intends to defend all of the foregoing cases vigorously.
There can be no assurance that any future claims relating to sales of such
policies will not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

EFFECT OF THE PAUL REVERE MERGER; INTEGRATION OF OPERATIONS

 The success of the Paul Revere Merger will be determined by various factors,
including the financial performance of the combined operations and
 ability to realize expected cost savings through combining certain
functions of both the Company and Paul Revere and restructuring the field
organizations of both companies. The integration of the operations of Paul
Revere and the Company may be negatively affected if, among other things, the
proposed changes are not made, customers do not react positively to some of the
planned changes intended to increase service or integrate the businesses of the
two companies, unanticipated offsetting costs are incurred, or costs or
difficulties related to the integration of the businesses of the Company and
Paul Revere are greater than expected. There can be no assurance that the
anticipated benefits of the Paul Revere Merger will be realized or that the Paul
Revere Merger will not adversely affect the future operating results of the
Company.

 20

 
SELECTED DATA OF SEGMENTS
 
 The following table reflects for the indicated years selected financial data
for the segments.
 


 1997 1996 1995
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31 (IN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
 RECLASSIFIED
 
REVENUE (EXCLUDING NET REALIZED INVESTMENT GAINS
 AND LOSSES)
Individual Life and Disability $ 1,902.3 $ 1,025.0 $ 999.1
Employee Benefits 883.7 555.5 520.3
Other Operations 752.1 720.0 1,067.6
 Total $ 3,538.1 $ 2,300.5 $ 2,587.0
 INCOME BEFORE NET REALIZED INVESTMENT GAINS AND
 LOSSES AND FEDERAL INCOME TAXES
Individual Life and Disability $ 232.3 $ 115.4 $ 34.0
Employee Benefits 63.3 46.1 32.2
Other Operations 69.6 73.3 141.5
 Total $ 365.2 $ 234.8 $ 207.7
 REVENUE (INCLUDING NET REALIZED INVESTMENT GAINS
 AND LOSSES)
Individual Life and Disability $ 1,910.2 $ 1,033.0 $ 1,003.2
Employee Benefits 887.3 555.5 524.2
Other Operations 755.7 703.4 1,027.9
 Total $ 3,553.2 $ 2,291.9 $ 2,555.3
 INCOME BEFORE FEDERAL INCOME TAXES
Individual Life and Disability $ 240.2 $ 123.4 $ 38.1
Employee Benefits 66.9 46.1 36.1
Other Operations 73.2 56.7 101.8
 Total $ 380.3 $ 226.2 $ 176.0
 ASSETS
Individual Life and Disability $11,051.1 $ 5,735.0 $ 5,443.9
Employee Benefits 2,145.2 1,490.0 1,407.8
Other Operations 9,981.3 7,767.5 9,449.6
 Total $23,177.6 $14,992.5 $16,301.3
 
 
 Total revenue (excluding net realized investment gains and losses) includes
premium income, net investment income, and other income. Total revenue
(including net realized investment gains and losses) includes premium income,
net investment income, net realized investment gains and losses, and other
income. Assets have been allocated to the segments based upon identifiable
liabilities and allocated stockholders' equity. Segment information for 1996
and 1995 has been reclassified to conform to current year reporting. The
reclassification, which reflects the current marketing and
operational structure, did not change total Revenue, total Income Before
Federal Income Taxes, or total Assets.
 
 Additional information regarding the operations of these segments may be
found under XX " Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 26-35 of the Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997, incorporated herein by
reference.
 
 21

 
EMPLOYEES

 At March 1, 1998, the Company had approximately 4,039 full-time employees
(excluding Genex), including approximately 1,819 at its headquarters in
Chattanooga, Tennessee, and Genex had approximately 1,308 full time employees,
including approximately 173 in its home office in Wayne, Pennsylvania.


YEAR 1999, CIK 1061630, ______________________________

Item 1. Business

General

 Capital Trust, Inc. is a specialty finance company designed to take
advantage of high-yielding lending and investment opportunities in commercial
real estate and related assets. The Company makes investments in various types
of income-producing commercial real estate and its current investment program
emphasizes XX and junior commercial mortgage loans, certificated mezzanine
investments, direct equity investments and subordinated interests in commercial
mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS"). The current business plan
contemplates that a majority of the loans and other assets held in its portfolio
for the long-term will be structured so that the investment is
subordinate to third-party financing but XX to the owner/ equity
position. The Company also provides real estate investment banking, advisory and
asset management services through its wholly owned subsidiary, Victor Capital
Group, L.P. ("Victor Capital"). The Company anticipates that it will invest in a
diverse array of real estate and finance-related assets and enterprises,
including operating companies, which satisfy its investment criteria. Unless the
context otherwise requires, "the Company" means Capital Trust, Inc., a Maryland
Corporation, its consolidated subsidiaries and its predecessor, Capital Trust
(f/k/a California Real Estate Investment Trust, a California business trust (the
"Predecessor")).

 In executing its business plan, the Company utilizes the extensive real
estate industry contacts and relationships of Equity Group Investments, L.L.C.
("EGI"). EGI is a privately held real estate and corporate investment firm
controlled by Samuel Zell, who serves as chairman of the board of directors of
the Company. affiliates include Equity Office Properties Trust and Equity
Residential Properties Trust, the largest U.S. real estate investment trusts
("REITs") operating in the office and multifamily residential sectors,
respectively. The Company also draws upon the extensive client roster of Victor
Capital for potential investment opportunities.

Developments During Fiscal Year 1998

 Fiscal year 1998 represented the first full year of operations
as a specialty finance and advisory company. During the year, the Company more
than doubled its total asset base to $766.4 million at December 31, 1998 from
$317.4 million at December 31, 1997. The growth was primarily the
result of its originating and funding approximately $605.3 million of new loan
and investment assets and further advances under existing unfunded commitments.
The Company funded these assets through cash generated from its $99 million
public securities offering in December 1997, the issuance of $150 million
Convertible Trust Preferred Securities (as hereinafter defined) in July 1998,
and borrowings under the two Credit Facilities (as hereinafter
defined) which were increased to $655 million from $150 million in 1997.

 The Company believes that its Credit Facilities and the proceeds from
capital raising activities provide the Company with the capital necessary to
expand and diversify its portfolio of loans and other investments and enable the
Company to compete for and consummate larger transactions meeting the 
target risk/return profile.

 Since December 31, 1997, the Company has identified, negotiated and
committed to fund or acquire twenty-three loan, certificated mezzanine
investment and CMBS assets. These include eleven Mortgage Loans (as hereinafter
defined) totaling $234.5 million (of which $20.9 million remains unfunded at
December 31, 1998), nine Mezzanine Loans (as hereinafter defined) totaling
$293.4 million, one Certificated Mezzanine Investment (as hereinafter defined)
for $32.5 million (of which $8.5 million remains unfunded at December 31, 1998),
and two acquisitions of three classes of Subordinated Interests (as hereinafter
defined) issued by a financial asset securitization investment trust totaling
$36.3 million. The Company also funded $8.4 million of commitments under two
loans originated in the prior year. These increases were offset by satisfactions
and repayments of $40.1 million, $30.3 million, $500,000 and $25.5 million on
the Mortgage Loans, Mezzanine Loans, Certificated Mezzanine Investments and
CMBS, respectively. The Company also sold a CMBS realizing $24.0 million of
proceeds. At December 31, 1998, the Company had outstanding loans, Certificated
Mezzanine Investments and investments in CMBS


 1




totaling approximately $702 million and additional commitments to fund
outstanding loans and certificated mezzanine investments totaling approximately
$40.3 million as compared to approximately $251.8 million of such assets and
$26.9 million of additional commitments at December 31, 1997.

 As discussed above, the Company raised significant additional capital in
1998. In July 1998, the Company completed a private placement of 150,000
Convertible Trust Preferred Securities that are convertible into Class A Common
Stock at a conversion price of $11.70 per share. The Company raised
approximately $145.2 million in net proceeds from this private placement
transaction. The Company also increased its access to credit by increasing its
Credit Facilities by $505 million, to $655 million over the course of fiscal
year 1998.

 As of December 31, 1998, the portfolio of financial assets
consisted of twelve Mortgage Loans, twelve Mezzanine Loans, two Certificated
Mezzanine Investments, three other loans originated prior to the commencement of
the new business plan (collectively the "Loan Portfolio") and three classes of
CMBS Subordinated Interests issued by a financial asset securitization
investment trust (together with the Loan Portfolio, the "Investment Portfolio").
There were no delinquencies or losses on such assets as of December 31, 1998 and
for the year then ended. The table set forth below details the composition of
the Investment Portfolio at December 31, 1998.


 Underlying Number
Type of Loan / Property of Loans / 
Investment Type Investments Commitment 
 

XX Mortgage Loans Office / 6 $ 170,483,000 
 Retail 
 

Subordinate Mortgage Office / 6 167,768,000 
 Loans Retail 
 

Mezzanine Loans Office / 12 362,821,000 
 Retail / 
 Assisted 
 Living

Certificated Office 2 54,466,000 
 Mezzanine 
 Investments

CMBS Various 3 36,509,000 
 

Other Loans Retail 3 2,550,000 
 -- 
 Total 32 $794,597,000 
 == 






 
Type of Loan / Outstanding Unfunded
Investment Balance Commitment Maturity Interest Rate
 
 
XX Mortgage Loans $ 150,037,000 $ 19,535,000 1999 to Fixed: 11.00% to 12.00%
 2001 Variable: LIBOR + 3.20%
 to LIBOR + 3.75%

Subordinate Mortgage 155,541,000 12,226,000 1999 to Fixed: 11.10%
 Loans 2001 Variable: LIBOR + 5.08%
 to LIBOR + 7.00%

Mezzanine Loans 317,278,000 -- 1999 to Fixed: 11.02% to 12.50%
 2008 Variable: LIBOR + 5.00%
 to LIBOR + 6.60%
 

Certificated 45,480,000 8,520,000 2000 Variable: LIBOR + 3.95%
 Mezzanine to LIBOR + 5.50%
 Investments

CMBS 36,509,000 -- 2003 Variable: LIBOR + 2.75%
 to LIBOR + 7.00%

Other Loans 2,019,000 -- 1999 to Fixed: 8.50% to 9.50%
 2017
 Total $706,864,000 $ 40,281,000
 

 With respect to the CMBS, the Company purchased $36,509,000 face amount of
 interests in three classes of CMBS Subordinated Interests issued by a
 financial asset securitization investment trust for $36,335,000, which, at
 December 31, 1998, had an amortized cost of $36,361,000 and a market value
 of $31,650,000.

Real Estate Lending and Investment Market

 The Company believes that the substantial recovery in commercial real
estate property values, coupled with fundamental structural changes in the real
estate capital markets (primarily related to the growth in CMBS issuance) and
the effect of the general credit spread widening since the global capital
markets crisis in September 1998, has created significant market-driven
opportunities for finance companies specializing in commercial real estate
lending and investing. Such opportunities are expected to result from the
following developments:

 o Scale and Rollover. The U.S. commercial mortgage market--a market that
 is comparable in size to the corporate and municipal bond markets--has
 approximately $1.2 trillion in total mortgage debt outstanding, which
 debt is primarily held privately. In addition, a significant amount of
 commercial mortgage loans held by U.S. financial institutions is
 scheduled to mature in the near future.


 2






 o Rapid Growth of Securitization. With issuance volume of approximately
 $78 billion in 1998, the total amount of CMBS currently outstanding has
 grown to over $200 billion from approximately $6 billion in 1990. To
 date, the CMBS market expansion has been fueled in large part by
 "conduits" which originate whole loans primarily for resale to
 financial intermediaries, which in turn package the loans as securities
 for distribution to public and private investors.

 The Company believes that as the underwriting criteria utilized by
 securitized lenders become accepted as the market standard, borrowers
 are left constrained by relatively inflexible securitization/rating
 agency standards, including lower loan-to-value ratios, thereby
 creating significant demand for mezzanine financing (typically between
 65% and 90% of total capitalization). In addition, since many high
 quality loans may not immediately qualify for securitization, due
 primarily to rating agency guidelines, significant opportunities are
 created for shorter-maturity bridge and transition mortgage financings.

 o Consolidation. As the real estate market continues to evolve, the
 Company expects that consolidation will occur and efficiency will
 increase. Over time, the Company believes that the market leaders in
 the real estate finance sector will be fully integrated finance
 companies capable of originating, underwriting, structuring, managing
 and retaining real estate risk.

 The Company believes that the commercial real estate capital markets for
both debt and equity are in the midst of dramatic structural change. Although
the issuance volume of CMBS grew to $78 billion in 1998 from $44 billion in
1997, the terms and conditions of securitized debt continue to be driven
significantly by rating agency criteria, resulting in restrictive underwriting
parameters and relatively inflexible transaction structures. At the same time,
existing equity owners are faced with high levels of maturing debt that will
need to be refinanced, and new buyers are seeking greater leverage than is
available from securitized or traditional providers.

 In light of the significant volatility in the global capital markets
experienced in September 1998, many providers of mezzanine and transitional
capital to the real estate sector have permanently or temporarily left the
business creating a supply/demand imbalance. As a result, the need for mezzanine
investment capital has grown significantly. The Company seeks to capitalize on
this market opportunity.

Business Strategy

 The Company seeks to generate returns from a portfolio of leveraged
investments. The Company currently pursues investment and lending opportunities
designed to capitalize on inefficiencies in the real estate capital, mortgage
and finance markets. The Company also earns revenue from its real estate
advisory and investment banking services.

 The Company believes that it is well positioned to capitalize on the
market opportunities, which, if carefully underwritten, structured and
monitored, represent attractive investments that pose potentially less risk than
direct equity ownership of real property. Further, the Company believes that the
rapid growth of the CMBS market has given rise to opportunities for the Company
to selectively acquire non-investment grade classes of such securities,
particularly at pricing levels prevailing in the market at the end of 1998,
which the Company believes are priced inefficiently in terms of their
risk/reward profile.

 Although the Company suspended its loan origination activity from
September 1998 through year-end and experienced a temporary slow-down of its
advisory business during that time as a result of the global capital markets
disruption, the Company ended 1998 with significant liquid resources and with
the belief that it was positioned to take advantage of portfolio growth
opportunities meeting its risk/return profile. On March 3, 1999, the Company
announced its re-entry into the loan origination and investment market through
the acquisition, by its newly formed wholly owned subsidiary, CT-BB Funding
Corp., of $246.0 million of face amount "BB" rated CMBS for a purchase price of
$196.9 million.


 3




 The investment program emphasizes, but is not limited to, the
following general categories of real estate and finance-related assets:

 o Mortgage Loans. The Company pursues opportunities to originate and fund
 XX and junior mortgage loans ("Mortgage Loans") to commercial real
 estate owners and property developers who require interim financing
 until permanent financing can be obtained. The Mortgage Loans
 are generally not intended to be permanent in nature, but rather are
 intended to be of a relatively short-term duration, with extension
 options as deemed appropriate, and typically require a balloon payment
 of principal at maturity. The Company may also originate and fund
 permanent Mortgage Loans in which the Company intends to sell the
 XX tranche, thereby creating a Mezzanine Loan.

 o Mezzanine Loans. The Company originates high-yielding loans that are
 subordinate to first lien mortgage loans on commercial real estate and
 are secured either by a second lien mortgage or a pledge of the
 ownership interests in the borrowing property owner ("Mezzanine
 Loans"). Generally, the Mezzanine Loans have a longer
 anticipated duration than its Mortgage Loans and are not intended to
 serve as transitional mortgage financing.

 o Certificated Mezzanine Investments. The Company purchases high-yielding
 investments that are subordinate to XX secured loans on commercial
 real estate. Such investments represent interests in debt service from
 loans or property cash flow and are issued in certificate form. These
 certificated investments carry substantially similar terms and risks as
 the Mezzanine Loans.

 o Subordinated Interests. The Company pursues rated and unrated
 investments in public and private subordinated interests ("Subordinated
 Interests") in commercial collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMOs")
 and other CMBS.

 o Other Investments. The Company intends to assemble an investment
 portfolio of commercial real estate and finance-related assets meeting
 the target risk/return profile. The Company is not limited in
 the kinds of commercial real estate and finance-related assets in which
 it can invest and believes that it is positioned to expand
 opportunistically its financing business. The Company may pursue
 investments in, among other assets, construction loans, distressed
 mortgages, foreign real estate and finance-related assets, operating
 companies, including loan origination and loan servicing companies, and
 fee interests in real property (collectively, "Other Investments").

 The Company seeks to maximize yield through the use of leverage,
consistent with maintaining an acceptable level of risk. Although there may be
limits to the leverage that can be applied to certain of the assets,
the Company does not intend to exceed a debt-to-equity ratio of 5:1. At December
31, 1998, the debt-to-equity ratio (treating the Convertible Trust
Preferred Securities as a component of equity) was 1.55:1.

 Other than restrictions which result from the intent to avoid
regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment
Company Act"), the Company is not subject to any restrictions on the particular
percentage of its portfolio invested in any of the above-referenced asset
classes, nor is it limited in the kinds of assets in which it can invest. The
Company has no predetermined limitations or targets for concentration of asset
type or geographic location. Instead of adhering to any prescribed limits or
targets, the Company makes acquisition decisions through asset and collateral
analysis, evaluating investment risks on a case-by-case basis. To the extent
that the assets become concentrated in a few states or a particular
region, the return on investment will become more dependent on the
economy of such states or region. Until appropriate investments are made, cash
available for investment may be invested in readily marketable securities or in
interest-bearing deposit accounts.



 4




Principal Investment Categories

 The discussion below describes the principal categories of assets
emphasized in the current business plan.

 Mortgage Loans. The Company actively pursues opportunities to originate
and fund Mortgage Loans to real estate owners and property developers who need
interim financing until permanent financing can be obtained. The 
Mortgage Loans generally are not intended to be "permanent" in nature, but
rather are intended to be of a relatively short-term duration, with extension
options as deemed appropriate, and generally require a balloon payment at
maturity. These types of loans are intended to be higher-yielding loans with
higher interest rates and commitment fees. Property owners or developers in the
market for these types of loans include, but are not limited to, property owners
who are completing a transition of their commercial real property such as an
asset repositioning or an asset lease-up, traditional property owners and
operators who desire to acquire a property before it has received a commitment
for a long-term mortgage from a traditional commercial mortgage lender, or a
property owner or investor who has an opportunity to purchase its existing
mortgage debt or third party mortgage debt at a discount; in each instance, the
 loan would be secured by a Mortgage Loan. The Company may also
originate traditional, long-term mortgage loans and, in doing so, would compete
with traditional commercial mortgage lenders. In pursuing such a strategy, the
Company generally intends to sell or refinance the XX portion of the
mortgage loan, individually or in a pool, and retain a Mezzanine Loan. In
addition, the Company believes that, as a result of the recent increase in
commercial real estate securitizations, there are attractive opportunities to
originate short-term bridge loans to owners of mortgaged properties that are
temporarily prevented as a result of timing and structural reasons from securing
long-term mortgage financing through securitization.

 Mezzanine Loans. The Company seeks to take advantage of opportunities to
provide mezzanine financing on commercial property that is subject to first lien
mortgage debt. The Company believes that there is a growing need for mezzanine
capital (i.e., capital representing the level between 65% and 90% of property
value) as a result of current commercial mortgage lending practices setting
loan-to-value targets as low as 65%. The mezzanine financing takes the
form of subordinated loans, commonly known as second mortgages, or, in the case
of loans originated for securitization, partnership loans (also known as pledge
loans). For example, on a commercial property subject to a first lien mortgage
loan with a principal balance equal to 70% of the value of the property, the
Company could lend the owner of the property (typically a partnership) an
additional 15% to 20% of the value of the property. The Company believes that as
a result of the significant changes in the lending practices of traditional
commercial real estate lenders, primarily relating to more conservative
loan-to-value ratios, and (ii) the significant increase in securitized lending
with strict loan-to-value ratios imposed by the rating agencies, there will
continue to be an increasing demand for mezzanine capital by property owners.

 Typically in a Mezzanine Loan, as security for its debt to the Company,
the property owner would pledge to the Company either the property subject to
the first lien (giving the Company a second lien position typically subject to
an inter-creditor agreement) or the limited partnership and/or general
partnership interest in the owner. If the general partnership interest
is pledged, then the Company would be in a position to take over the operation
of the property in the event of a default by the owner. By borrowing against the
additional value in their properties, the property owners obtain an additional
level of liquidity to apply to property improvements or alternative uses.
Mezzanine Loans generally provide the Company with the right to receive a stated
interest rate on the loan balance plus various commitment and/or exit fees. In
certain instances, the Company may negotiate to receive a percentage of net
operating income or gross revenues from the property, payable to the Company on
an ongoing basis, and a percentage of any increase in value of the property,
payable upon maturity or refinancing of the loan, or the Company will otherwise
seek terms to allow the Company to charge an interest rate that would provide an
attractive risk-adjusted return.

 In connection with its mezzanine lending and investing activities, the
Company may elect to pursue strategic alliances with lenders such as commercial
banks and Wall Street conduits who do not have a mezzanine lending capability
and are therefore perceived to be at a competitive disadvantage. The Company
believes that such alliances could accelerate the loan origination
volume, assist in performing underwriting due diligence and reduce potential
overhead.

 Certificated Mezzanine Investments. Certificated Mezzanine Investments
have substantially similar terms and risks as the Mezzanine Loans but
are evidenced by certificates representing interests in property debt service or
cash flow rather than by a note. Typically in a Certificated Mezzanine


 5




Investment, the Company obtains, as security for the mezzanine capital provided,
an interest in the debt service provided by the loans that are secured by the
underlying property or in the cash flows generated by the property (held through
a trust and evidenced by trust certificates) that is subject to the XX lien
or liens encumbering the underlying property. This structure provides the
Company with a subordinate investment position typically subject to an
inter-creditor agreement with the XX creditor. By borrowing through such a
mezzanine structure against the additional value in its assets, the property
owner obtains, with the proceeds of the Certificated Mezzanine Investment, an
additional level of liquidity to apply to property improvements or alternative
uses. Certificated Mezzanine Investments generally provide the Company with the
right to receive a stated rate of return on its investment basis plus various
commitment, extension and/or other fees. Generally the terms and conditions on
these investments are the same as those on a Mezzanine Loan.

 Subordinated Interests. The Company acquires rated and unrated
Subordinated Interests in CMBS issued in public or private transactions. CMBS
typically are divided into two or more classes, sometimes called "tranches." The
XX classes are higher "rated" securities, which are rated from low
investment grade ("BBB") to higher investment grade ("AA" or "AAA"). The junior,
subordinated classes typically include a lower rated, non-investment grade "BB"
and "B" class, and an unrated, high yielding, credit support class (which
generally is required to absorb the first losses on the underlying mortgage
loans). The Company currently invests in the non-investment grade tranches of
Subordinated Interests. The Company may acquire performing and non-performing
(i.e., defaulted) Subordinated Interests. CMBS generally are issued either as
CMOs or pass-through certificates that are not guaranteed by an entity having
the credit status of a governmental agency or instrumentality, although they
generally are structured with one or more of the types of credit enhancement
arrangements to reduce credit risk. In addition, CMBS may be illiquid.

 The credit quality of CMBS depends on the credit quality of the underlying
mortgage loans forming the collateral for the securities. CMBS are backed
generally by a limited number of commercial or multifamily mortgage loans with
larger principal balances than those of single family mortgage loans. As a
result, a loss on a single mortgage loan underlying a CMBS will have a greater
negative effect on the yield of such CMBS, especially the Subordinated Interests
in such CMBS.

 Before acquiring Subordinated Interests, the Company performs certain
credit underwriting and stress testing to attempt to evaluate future performance
of the mortgage collateral supporting such CMBS, including a review of the
underwriting criteria used in making mortgage loans comprising the Mortgage
Collateral for the CMBS, (ii) a review of the relative principal amounts of the
loans, their loan-to-value ratios as well as the mortgage loans' purpose and
documentation, (iii) where available, a review of the historical performance of
the loans originated by the particular originator and (iv) some level of
re-underwriting the underlying mortgage loans, including, selected site visits.

 Unlike the owner of mortgage loans, the owner of Subordinated Interests in
CMBS ordinarily does not control the servicing of the underlying mortgage loans.
In this regard, the Company attempts to negotiate for the right to cure any
defaults on XX CMBS classes and for the right to acquire such XX classes
in the event of a default or for other similar arrangements. The Company may
also seek to acquire rights to service defaulted mortgage loans, including
rights to control the oversight and management of the resolution of such
mortgage loans by workout or modification of loan provisions, foreclosure, deed
in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise, and to control decisions with respect to
the preservation of the collateral generally, including property management and
maintenance decisions ("Special Servicing Rights") with respect to the mortgage
loans underlying CMBS in which the Company owns a Subordinated Interest. Such
rights to cure defaults and Special Servicing Rights may give the Company, for
example, some control over the timing of foreclosures on such mortgage loans
and, thus, may enable the Company to reduce losses on such mortgage loans. The
Company has in the past served as a special servicer with respect to a
Subordinated Interest investment, but is not currently a rated special servicer.
The Company may seek to become rated as a special servicer, or acquire a rated
special servicer. Until the Company can act as a rated special servicer, it will
be difficult to obtain Special Servicing Rights with respect to the mortgage
loans underlying Subordinated Interests. Although the strategy is to
purchase Subordinated Interests at a price designed to return the 
investment and generate a profit thereon, there can be no assurance that such
goal will be met or, indeed, that the investment in a Subordinated
Interest will be returned in full or at all.

 The Company believes that it will not be, and intends to conduct its
operations so as not to become, regulated as an investment company under the
Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act generally exempts entities
that are "primarily engaged in purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and
other liens on and interests in real estate" ("Qualifying Interests"). The
Company intends to rely on current 


 6




interpretations by the staff of the Commission in an effort to qualify for this
exemption. To comply with the foregoing guidance, the Company, among other
things, must maintain at least 55% of its assets in Qualifying Interests and
also may be required to maintain an additional 25% in Qualifying Interests or
other real estate-related assets. Generally, the Mortgage Loans and certain of
the Mezzanine Loans and Certificated Mezzanine Investments in which the Company
may invest constitute Qualifying Interests. While Subordinated Interests
generally do not constitute Qualifying Interests, the Company may seek to
structure such investments in a manner where the Company believes such
Subordinated Interests may constitute Qualifying Interests. The Company may
seek, where appropriate, to obtain foreclosure rights or other similar
arrangements (including obtaining Special Servicing Rights before or after
acquiring or becoming a rated special servicer) with respect to the underlying
mortgage loans, although there can be no assurance that it will be able to do so
on acceptable terms or (ii) to acquire Subordinated Interests collateralized by
whole pools of mortgage loans. As a result of obtaining such rights or whole
pools of mortgage loans as collateral, the Company believes that the related
Subordinated Interests will constitute Qualifying Interests for purposes of the
Investment Company Act. The Company does not intend, however, to seek an
exemptive order, no-action letter or other form of interpretive guidance from
the Commission or its staff on this position. Any decision by the Commission or
its staff advancing a position with respect to whether such Subordinated
Interests constitute Qualifying Interests that differs from the position taken
by the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

 Other Investments.The Company may also pursue a variety of complementary
commercial real estate and finance-related businesses and investments in
furtherance of executing its current business plan. Such activities include, but
are not limited to, investments in other classes of mortgage-backed securities,
distressed investing in non-performing and sub-performing loans and fee owned
commercial real property, whole loan acquisition programs, foreign real
estate-related asset investments, note financings, environmentally hazardous
lending, operating company investing/lending, construction and rehabilitation
lending and other types of financing activity. Any lending with regard to the
foregoing may be on a secured or an unsecured basis and will be subject to risks
similar to those attendant to investing in Mortgage Loans, Mezzanine Loans,
Certificated Mezzanine Investments and Subordinated Interests. The Company seeks
to maximize yield by managing credit risk by employing its credit underwriting
procedures, although there can be no assurance that the Company will be
successful in this regard. The Company is actively investigating potential
business acquisition opportunities that it believes will complement the
 operations including firms engaged in commercial loan origination,
loan servicing, mortgage banking, financing activities, real estate loan and
property acquisitions and real estate investment banking and advisory services
similar to or related to the services provided by the Company. No assurance can
be given that any such transactions will be negotiated or completed or that any
business acquired can be efficiently integrated with the ongoing
operations.

Portfolio Management 

 The following describes some of the portfolio management practices that
the Company may employ from time to time to earn income, facilitate portfolio
management (including managing the effect of maturity or interest rate
sensitivity) and mitigate risk (such as the risk of changes in interest rates).
There can be no assurance that the Company will not amend or deviate from these
policies or adopt other policies in the future.

 Leverage and Borrowing. The success of the current business plan
is dependent upon the ability to grow its portfolio of invested assets
through the use of leverage. The Company intends to leverage its assets through
the use of, among other things, bank credit facilities including the Credit
Facilities, secured and unsecured borrowings, repurchase agreements and other
borrowings, when there is an expectation that such leverage will benefit the
Company; such borrowings may have recourse to the Company in the form of
guarantees or other obligations. If changes in market conditions cause the cost
of such financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from
investments made with the proceeds thereof, the Company may reduce the amount of
leverage it utilizes. Obtaining the leverage required to execute the current
business plan requires the Company to maintain interest coverage ratios and
other covenants meeting market underwriting standards. In leveraging its
portfolio, the Company plans not to exceed a debt-to-equity ratio of 5:1. The
Company has also agreed it will not incur any indebtedness if the 
debt-to-equity ratio would exceed 5:1 without the prior written consent of the
holders of a majority of the outstanding Class A Preferred Stock (as hereinafter
defined).

 Leverage creates an opportunity for increased income, but at the same time
creates special risks. For example, leveraging magnifies changes in the net
worth of the Company. Although the amount owed will be fixed, the 
assets may change in value during the time the debt is outstanding. Leverage
will 


 7





create interest expense for the Company that can exceed the revenues from the
assets retained. To the extent the revenues derived from assets acquired with
borrowed funds exceed the interest expense incurred by the Company, the
 net income will be greater than if borrowed funds had not been used.
Conversely, if the revenues from the assets acquired with borrowed funds are not
sufficient to cover the cost of borrowing, the net income will be less
than if borrowed funds had not been used.

 In order to grow and enhance its return on equity, the Company currently
utilizes two primary sources of leverage: the Credit Facilities and repurchase
agreements.

 Credit Facilities. As discussed above, the Company has two Credit
Facilities under which it can borrow funds to finance origination or acquisition
of loan and investment assets. At December 31, 1998, the Company had $371.8
million of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facilities. On December 31,
1998, the unused portion of the Credit Facilities amounted to $283.2 million
providing the Company with adequate liquidity for its short-term needs.

 Repurchase Agreements. The Company has entered into seven repurchase
agreements and may enter into other such agreements under which the Company
would sell assets to a third party with the commitment that the Company
repurchase such assets from the purchaser at a fixed price on an agreed date.
Repurchase agreements may be characterized as loans to the Company from the
other party that are secured by the underlying assets. The repurchase price
reflects the purchase price plus an agreed market rate of interest, which is
generally paid on a monthly basis.

Interest Rate Management Techniques

 The Company has engaged in and will continue to engage in a variety of
interest rate management techniques for the purpose of managing the effective
maturity or interest rate of its assets and/or liabilities. These techniques
also may be used to attempt to protect against declines in the market value of
the assets resulting from general trends in debt markets. Any such
transaction is subject to risks and may limit the potential earnings on the
 loans and investments in real estate-related assets. Such techniques
include interest rate swaps (the exchange of fixed-rate payments for
floating-rate payments) and interest rate caps. The Company employs the use of
correlated hedging strategies to limit the effects of changes in interest rates
on its operations, including engaging in interest rate swaps and interest rate
caps to minimize its exposure to changes in interest rates. Amounts arising from
the differential are recognized as an adjustment to interest income related to
the earning asset. In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
("FASB") issued statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities" ("SFAS No. 133"), effective for fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 1999, although earlier application is permitted. The Company plans to
adopt SFAS No. 133 effective January 1, 2000. Based upon the 
derivative positions, which are considered effective hedges at December 31,
1998, the Company estimates that it would have reported a reduction in other
comprehensive income of $4.5 million had the statement been adopted at that
time.


 8




Real Estate Advisory and Investment Banking Services

 The Company provides real estate advisory and investment banking services
through its Victor Capital subsidiary, which commenced operations in 1989.
Victor Capital provides such services to an extensive client roster of real
estate investors, owners, developers and financial institutions in connection
with mortgage financings, securitizations, joint ventures, debt and equity
investments, mergers and acquisitions, portfolio evaluations, restructurings and
disposition programs. Victor XX professionals average 18 years of
experience in the real estate financial services industry.

 Victor Capital provides an array of real estate investment banking and
advisory services to a variety of clients such as financial institutions,
including banks and insurance companies, public and private owners of commercial
real estate, creditor committees and investment funds. In such engagements,
Victor Capital typically negotiates for a retainer and/or a monthly fee plus
disbursements; these fees are typically applied against a success-oriented fee,
which is based on achieving the goals. While dependent upon the size
and complexity of the underlying transaction, Victor fees for capital
raising assignments are generally in the range of 0.5% to 3.0% of the total
amount of debt and equity raised. For pure real estate advisory assignments, a
fee is typically negotiated in advance and can take the form of a flat fee or a
monthly retainer. In certain instances, Victor Capital negotiates for the right
to receive a portion of its compensation in-kind, such as the receipt of stock
in a publicly traded company. Victor Capital also provides its real estate asset
management services primarily to institutional investors such as public and
private money management firms. Victor services may include the
identification and acquisition of specific mortgage loans and/or properties and
the management and disposition of these assets.

For the year ended December 31, 1998, the Company adopted FASB Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No.131, "Disclosure about segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information" ("SFAS No. 131"). SFAS No. 131 requires
disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information regarding
the different types activities in which an enterprise engages and
the different economic environments in which it operates. The disclosures as to
the operating results and identifiable assets as required by SFAS No. 131 are
presented for the two segments along service lines in Note 23 to the
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Factors which may Affect the Company Strategy

 The success of the Company strategy depends in part on
important factors, many of which are not within the control of the Company. The
availability of desirable loan and investment opportunities and the results of
the operations will be affected by the amount of available capital,
the level and volatility of interest rates and credit spreads, conditions in the
financial markets and general economic conditions. There can be no assurances as
to the effects of unanticipated changes in any of the foregoing. The Company strategy also depends on the ability to grow its portfolio of invested
assets through the use of leverage. There can be no assurance that the Company
will be able to obtain and maintain targeted levels of leverage or that the cost
of debt financing will increase relative to the income generated from the assets
acquired with such financing and cause the Company to reduce the amount of
leverage it utilizes. The Company risks the loss of some or all of its assets or
a financial loss if the Company is required to liquidate assets at a
commercially inopportune time.

 The Company confronts the prospect that competition from other providers
of mezzanine capital may lead to a lowering of the interest rates earned on the
 interest-earning assets that may not be offset by lower borrowing
costs. Changes in interest rates are also affected by the rate of inflation
prevailing in the economy. A significant reduction in interest rates could
increase prepayment rates and thereby reduce the projected average life of the
 interest-bearing asset portfolio. While the Company may employ various
hedging strategies, there can be no assurance that the Company would not be
adversely affected during any period of changing interest rates. In addition,
many of the assets will be at risk to the deterioration in or total
losses of the underlying real property securing the assets, which may not be
adequately covered by insurance necessary to restore the economic
position with respect to the affected property.


 9




Competition

 The Company is engaged in a highly competitive business. The Company
competes for loan and investment opportunities with many new entrants into the
specialty finance business emphasized in its current business plan, including
numerous public and private real estate investment vehicles, including financial
institutions (such as mortgage banks, pension funds, and REITs) and other
institutional investors, as well as individuals. Many competitors are
significantly larger than the Company, have well established operating histories
and may have access to greater capital and other resources. In addition, the
real estate services industry is highly competitive and there are numerous
well-established competitors possessing substantially greater financial,
marketing, XX and other resources than Victor Capital. Victor Capital
competes with national, regional and local real estate service firms.

Government Regulation

 The activities, including the financing of its operations, are
subject to a variety of federal and state regulations such as those imposed by
the Federal Trade Commission and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. In addition,
a majority of states have ceilings on interest rates chargeable to customers in
financing transactions.

Employees

 As of December 31, 1998, the Company employed 35 full-time professionals,
one part-time professional and nine other full-time employees. None of the
 employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and
management considers the relationship with its employees to be good.



 10






YEAR 1999, CIK 876523, ______________________________

Item 1. Business

EZCORP, Inc. (the "Company") is a Delaware corporation; its principal executive offices are located at 1901 Capital Parkway, Austin, Texas 78746, and its telephone number is (512) 314-3400. As used herein, the Company includes the
subsidiaries listed in Exhibit 22.1.

The discussion in this section of this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. Factors that could cause or
contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this section and those discussed elsewhere in this report.

General
The Company is primarily engaged in establishing, acquiring, and operating pawnshops which function as convenient sources of consumer credit and as value-oriented specialty retailers of primarily previously owned merchandise.
Through its lending function, the Company makes relatively small, non-recourse loans secured by pledges of tangible personal property. The Company contracts for a pawn service charge to compensate it for each pawn loan. Pawn service charges, which
generally range from 12% to 300% per annum, are calculated based on the dollar amount and duration of the loan and accounted for approximately 44% of the revenues for the year ended September 30, 1999 ("Fiscal 1999"). In Fiscal 1999,
approximately 76% of the loans made by the Company were redeemed in full together with the payment of the pawn service charges or were renewed or extended through the payment of the pawn service charges. In most states in which the Company operates,
collateral is held one month with a 60 day extension period after which such collateral is forfeited for resale.

As of December 1, 1999, the Company operated 334 locations: 193 in Texas, 24 in Colorado, 22 in Oklahoma, 21 in Indiana, 17 in Florida, 14 in Georgia, 13 in Alabama, 8 in California, 8 in Tennessee, 4 in Nevada, 3 in Louisiana, 3 in
Mississippi, 3 in North Carolina and 1 in Arkansas. The Company intends to expand through the establishment or acquisition of stores primarily in existing markets to form efficient regional clusters in states with regulatory, competitive, and demographic
characteristics conducive to successful pawnshop operation.

The pawnshop industry in the United States is a large, highly fragmented, and growing industry. The industry consists of over 10,000 pawnshops owned primarily by independent operators who typically own one to three locations. 

Lending Activities
The Company is primarily engaged in the business of making pawn loans, which typically are relatively small, non-recourse loans secured by pledges of tangible personal property. As of September 30, 1999, the Company had
approximately 770,000 loans outstanding, representing an aggregate principal balance of $53.9 million. The Company contracts for a pawn service charge to compensate it for a pawn loan. A majority of the outstanding pawn loans are in an amount
that permits pawn service charges of 20% per month or 240% per annum. For Fiscal 1999, pawn service charges accounted for approximately 44% of the total revenues.

Collateral for the pawn loans consists of tangible personal property, generally jewelry, consumer electronics, tools, and musical instruments. The Company does not investigate the creditworthiness of a borrower, but relies on
the estimated resale value of the pledged property, the perceived probability of its redemption, and the estimated time required to sell the item as a basis for its credit decision. The amount that the Company is willing to lend generally ranges from 20%
to 65% of the pledged estimated resale value depending on an evaluation of these factors. The sources for the determination of the resale value of collateral are numerous and include catalogues, blue books, newspaper advertisements,
and previous sales of similar merchandise.

The pledged property is held through the term of the loan, which in Texas is one month with an automatic 60-day grace period, unless repaid or renewed earlier. The Company seeks to maintain a redemption rate between 70% and 80%, and in
each of the last three fiscal periods, it achieved this targeted redemption rate. The redemption rate is maintained through loan policy and proper implementation of such policy at the store level. If a borrower does not repay, extend, or renew
a loan, the collateral is forfeited to the Company and then becomes inventory available for sale in the pawnshops. The Company does not record loan losses or charge-offs because the principal amount of an unpaid loan and any accrued pawn
service charges become the carrying cost of the forfeited collateral, which is recorded as the inventory. The Company evaluates the salability of inventory and provides an allowance for valuation of inventory, based on the type of merchandise,
recent sales trends and margins, and the age of merchandise.

The table below shows the dollar amount of loans made, loans repaid, loans forfeited, and loans acquired by the Company for the fiscal years ended September 30, 1997, 1998 and 1999:

 


Fiscal Years Ended September 30,


1997

1998

1999


(dollars in millions)


Loans made

$ 170.4

$ 180.9

$ 208.2


Loans repaid

 (108.9 )

 (114.4 )

(126.3 )


Loans forfeited

 (53.3 )

 (60.3 )

( 77.9 )


Loans acquired

 -

 0.6

 0.3


Net increase in pawn loans outstanding at the end of the year 

$ 8.2

$ 6.8

 $ 4.3


 
 
 
 




The realization of gross profit on sales of inventory primarily depends on the initial assessment of the estimated resale value. Improper assessment of the resale value of the collateral in the lending function can
result in reduced marketability of the property and resale of the property for an amount less than the carrying cost of the property. Jewelry, which constitutes approximately 60% of the principal amount pledged, can be evaluated primarily based
on weight, carat content, and value of gemstones, if any. The oth pawned typically consist of consumer electronics, tools, and musical instruments.

At the time a pawn transaction is made, a pawn loan agreement, commonly referred to as a pawn ticket, is delivered to the borrower. It sets forth, among other things, the name and address of the pawnshop and the borrower, the
 identification number from his license, military identification or other official number, the date of the loan, an identification, and description of the pledged goods (including applicable serial numbers), the amount financed, the
pawn service charge, the maturity date of the loan, the total amount that must be paid to redeem the pledged goods on the maturity date, and the annual percentage rate.

Of the 334 locations in operation as of December 1, 1999, 193 were stores located in Texas. Accordingly, Texas pawnshop laws govern most of the operations. In Texas, pawnshop operations are regulated by the State
of Texas Office of Consumer Credit Commissioner in accordance with Chapter 371 of the Texas Finance Code, commonly known as the Texas Pawnshop Act (the "Pawnshop Act"). See "Regulation".

The maximum allowable pawn service charges for stratified loan amounts made in the State of Texas are set in accordance with Texas law under the Pawnshop Act. Historically, the maximum allowable pawn service charges under Texas law
have not changed; however, the stratified loan amounts have been adjusted upward by nominal amounts each year. The maximum allowable pawn service charges under the 
Pawnshop Act for the various stratified loan amounts for the year beginning July 1, 1998 and ending June 30, 1999 and for the year beginning July 1, 1999 and ending June 30, 2000, are as follows:

 


Schedule of Applicable Loan Service Charges for Texas

 
 


Year Ended June 30, 1999

 Year Ending June 30, 2000

 
 
 
 
 

 

Maximum
 
 

Maximum

 

Allowable
 
 

Allowable

 

Annual
 
 

Annual


Amount Financed

Percentage
 

Amount Financed

Percentage


 Per Pawn Loan 

Rate
 

Per Pawn Loan

Rate


$1 to $138

240%
 

$1 to $141

240%


$139 to $460

180%
 

$142 to $470

180%


$461 to $1,380

 30%
 

$471 to $1,410

 30%


$1,381 to 11,500

 12%
 

$1,411 to 11,750

 12%





Under Texas law, there is a ceiling on the maximum allowable pawn loan. For the period July 1, 1998 through June 30, 1999, the loan ceiling was $11,500. For the period July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2000, the loan ceiling is $11,750.
The average loan amount at the end of Fiscal 1999 was approximately $69.

Retail Activities
Jewelry sales represent approximately 45% of the merchandise sales with the remaining sales consisting primarily of consumer electronics, tools, and musical instruments. The Company believes its ability to offer quality used
merchandise at prices significantly lower than original retail prices attracts value-conscious customers. The Company obtains its inventory primarily from unredeemed collateral, and to a lesser extent, from purchases from the general public, and from
wholesale sources. For Fiscal 1999, purchases from the general public and from wholesale sources constituted approximately 6% of the dollar value of inflows to inventory. During Fiscal 1999, $119.5 million of merchandise was added to inventory through
forfeited collateral. Of such amount, $77.9 million was from the principal amount of unredeemed pawn loans, and $41.6 million was from accrued service charges. For Fiscal 1999, retail activities accounted for approximately 56% of the total
revenues, but only 14% of the net revenue, after deducting cost of goods sold on merchandise sales.

Analysis of the sales and inventory data provided by the management information systems facilitates the design of promotional and merchandising programs and merchandise pricing decisions. Regional and area managers develop
and implement promotional and merchandising programs, review merchandise pricing decisions, and balance inventory levels within markets.

The Company does not give prospective buyers any warranties on most merchandise sold through its retail operations, except for certain purchases of new, wholesale-purchased merchandise, which may have a limited warranty.
Prospective buyers may purchase an item on layaway through the "EZ Layaway" program. Through EZ Layaway, a prospective purchaser will typically put down a minimum of 20% of an purchase price as a customer layaway deposit. The Company
will hold the item for a 90-day period during which the customer is required to pay for the item in full. As of September 30, 1999, the Company had $2.4 million in customer layaway deposits and related payments.

The overall inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market. The Company provides inventory reserves for shrinkage and cost in excess of market value. The Company estimates these reserves through study and analysis of
sales trends, inventory turnover, inventory aging, margins achieved on recent sales, and shrinkage. Valuation allowances, including shrinkage reserves, amounted to $8.3 million as of September 30, 1999. At September 30, 1999, total inventory on hand was
$58.2 million, after deducting such allowance for shrinkage and valuation of inventory.

Seasonality
Historically, pawn service charge revenues are highest in the fiscal fourth quarter (July, August, and September) due to higher loan demand during the summer months. Merchandise sales are highest in the first
and second fiscal quarters (October through March) due to the holiday season and tax refunds.

Operations

General
The typical Company location is a freestanding building or part of a retail strip center. Nearly all of the pawnshop locations have contiguous parking available. Store interiors are designed to resemble small discount
operations and attractively display merchandise by category. Distinctive exterior design and attractive in-store signage provide an appealing atmosphere to customers. The typical store has approximately 1,800 square feet of retail space and
approximately 3,200 square feet dedicated to lending activities (principally collateral storage). The Company maintains property and general liability insurance for each of its pawnshops. The stores are open six or seven days a week, depending
on location.

Store Management
A typical Company store employs five to six people consisting of a manager, an assistant manager, and three to four sales and lending representatives. Store managers are specifically responsible for ensuring that their store is run
in accordance with the established policies and procedures, and for operating their store according to performance parameters consistent with the store operating guidelines. Each store manager reports to one of approximately 43 area
managers who are responsible for the stores within a specific operating region. Area managers are responsible for the performance of all stores within their area and report to one of six regional directors. 

Management Information Systems and Controls
The Company has a store level point of sale (POS) system that automates the recording of all store-level transactions. Financial summary data from all stores is retrieved and processed at the corporate office each day and is
available for management review by early morning for the preceding transactions. This information is available to field management via the internal network. The communications network provides access to each store from the
corporate offices.

During 1999, the Company continued the development of a new POS system. This new system will provide additional store level functionality, increase service offerings, enhance reporting, and controls, and provide software, and hardware
scalability. The Company plans to conduct an in-store test of this new system in its third fiscal 2000 quarter and, based on the success of this test, install the system chain wide by the end of its first fiscal 2001 quarter. During Fiscal 1999, the
Company completed a conversion of its financial and human resource information systems. The Company believes that these systems will provide better tools to manage and control the business.

The Company, like many companies, faces the Year 2000 Issue. This is a result of computer programs being written using two digits rather than four (for example, "99" for 1999) to define the applicable year. Any of the 
programs that have time-sensitive software may recognize a date using "00" as the year 1900 rather than the year 2000. This could result in a system failure or miscalculations causing disruptions of operations, including, among other things a temporary
inability to process transactions or engage in other normal business activities. 

The plan to resolve the Year 2000 Issue involved the following four phases: assessment, remediation, testing, and implementation. To date, the Company has fully completed its assessment of all systems that could be affected
by the Year 2000. The completed assessment indicated that the only information technology system affected was the store level point of sale system. For this exposure, the Company completed the assessment, remediation, testing, and
implementation phases. In addition, the Company has reviewed, and continues to monitor, the Year 2000 preparedness of third parties with which it transacts business. The Company is not aware of any third party with a Year 2000 Issue that would
materially impact the results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources. However, the Company has no means of ensuring that all third parties will be Year 2000 ready.

The Company utilized internal resources to reprogram, test, and implement the software and operating equipment for Year 2000 modifications. The total cost of the Year 2000 project was less than $100,000 and was funded by operating cash
flows. These costs were expensed as incurred.

The management believes it has effectively resolved the Year 2000 Issue. If unexpected issues arise, the Company may not be able to process customer transactions which could have a material impact on the operations of the
Company. In addition, disruptions in the economy generally resulting from Year 2000 issues could also materially adversely affect the Company. The amount of potential liability and lost revenue cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. As a
contingency plan, the Company has developed and distributed to each of its locations an operating package which would allow each location to operate in a manual environment.

The Company has an internal audit staff of approximately 25 employees to ensure that the policies and procedures are consistently followed. In addition, the audit department carefully monitors, among other matters, the
 perpetual inventory system, lending practices, and regulatory compliance.

Human Resources
As of September 30, 1999, the Company employed approximately 2,300 people. The Company believes that its profitability is dependent upon its employees' ability to make loans that achieve optimum redemption rates, to sell retail
merchandise effectively, and to provide prompt and courteous customer service. The Company seeks to hire people who will become long-term, career employees. To achieve the long-range XX goals, the Company strives to develop its
employees through a combination of classroom training and supervised on-the-job loan and sales training for new employees. Managers attend on-going management skills and operations performance training. Regional area managers receive
leadership training to effectively motivate employees to increase each profitability. The management believes that its managers, at all levels, are the principal trainers in the organization.

The Company anticipates that store manager candidates will be promoted primarily from the ranks of existing store employees and has created a process for forecasting future needs and identifying potential internal candidates for
position openings. The career development plan not only develops and advances employees within the Company, but also provides training for the efficient integration of experienced retail managers and pawnbrokers from outside the Company.

In Texas, each pawnshop employee is required to be licensed in order to make loans or sell merchandise and is required to file for that license within 75 days of the date of hire. The licensing fee is $25 and the licensing process
includes a review of the background. Licenses are renewed annually at a fee of $25; renewals also include a review of each background.

Trade Name
The Company currently operates virtually all of its pawnshops under the name "EZ Pawn," which it has registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The Company also uses and has registered the following marks: "E-Z
PAWN," "EZCORP," "JEWELRYLAND OUTLET," "EZ MONEY", and "EZ MONEY CENTER." 

Growth and Expansion
During Fiscal 1999, the Company established 43 stores, acquired four stores, and closed two stores. The Company plans to slow its expansion and focus on further developing existing markets. The Company seeks to establish clusters
of stores in specific geographic regions depending upon individual market demographics. In this manner, the Company expects to achieve certain economies of scale relative to its advertising, name recognition, and managerial and administrative costs.

The five most recently established stores with 12 full months of operating data, opened by the Company through September 30, 1999, required an average gross investment (including inventory, pawn loans, property, plant, and equipment) of
approximately $450,000 per pawnshop during the first 12 months of operation.

The ability to add new stores is dependent on several variables, such as the availability of acceptable sites or acquisition candidates, the regulatory environment, and the availability of qualified XX. The 
ability to add newly established stores in Texas counties having a population of 250,000 or more has been adversely affected by Texas law which became effective September 1, 1991, which required a finding of public need and probable profitability by the
Texas Consumer Credit Commissioner as a condition to the issuance of any new pawnshop license in such counties. Since September 1, 1991, the Company has opened or acquired 73 locations in Texas counties having a population of less than 250,000.
Effective September 1, 1999, applicable Texas law was amended to provide that, in counties with 250,000 or more residents, applications for new licenses will be approved only at proposed locations which are not less than two miles from another licensed
pawnshop and applications to relocate a licensed pawnshop will be approved only for proposed locations which are not less than one mile from another licensed pawnshop. Additionally, any store may relocate to within one mile of its present location,
regardless of the existence of other pawnshops. The ability to add newly established stores in such counties may be adversely affected by such regulation. See "Regulation".

Competition
The Company encounters significant competition in connection with the operation of its business. These competitive conditions may adversely affect the revenues, profitability, and its ability to expand. In connection
with the lending of money, the Company competes primarily with other pawnshops. The majority of the competitors are independently owned pawnshops. The Company is the second largest publicly held chain of pawnshops in the United States. The
Company believes that the primary elements of competition in the pawnshop business are store location and design, the ability to loan competitive amounts on items pawned, management of store-level employees, and the quality of customer service. In
addition, as the pawnshop industry consolidates, the Company believes that the ability to compete effectively will be based increasingly on strong general management, regional market focus, automated management information systems, and access to capital.
Some of the competitors may have greater financial resources than the Company.

To a certain extent, the Company also competes with other types of financial institutions such as consumer finance companies and companies making what are referred to as payday loans. Other lenders may and do lend money on an unsecured
basis, at interest rates which are lower than the service charges of the Company, and on other terms more favorable than those offered by the Company.

The competitors, in connection with the sale of merchandise, include numerous retail and wholesale stores, including jewelry stores, discount retail stores, consumer electronics stores, other pawnshops, other retailers of
previously owned merchandise, electronic commerce retailers, and auction sites. Competitive factors in the retail operations include the ability to provide the customer with a variety of merchandise at an exceptional value. On a retail level,
the Company competes with numerous other retailers who have significantly greater financial resources than the Company.

Regulation

Pawnshop Operations
The pawnshop operations are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local statutes, ordinances, and regulations. Of the 334 locations as of December 1, 1999,
193 were in Texas. Accordingly, Texas pawnshop laws govern most of the operations. The laws of Colorado, Oklahoma, Indiana, Florida, Georgia, Alabama, California, Tennessee, Nevada, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, and Arkansas apply to
the pawnshop operations in those states. At December 1, 1999, the Company operated 334 locations: 193 in Texas, 24 in Colorado, 22 in Oklahoma, 21 in Indiana, 17 in Florida, 14 in Georgia, 13 in Alabama, 8 in California, 8 in Tennessee, 4 in
Nevada, 3 in Louisiana, 3 in Mississippi, 3 in North Carolina, and 1 in Arkansas. In the states in which the Company operates other than Texas, Oklahoma, and Alabama, pawnshops are subject to local regulation at the municipal and county level, which
regulation may affect the ability of the Company to expand its operations in those states.

Texas Pawnshop Regulations
In Texas, pawnshops are governed by the Texas Pawnshop Act and the Rules of Operation promulgated thereunder, and are subject to licensing by and supervision of the State of Texas Office of Consumer Credit Commissioner. In
addition, pawnshops and pawnshop employees in Texas are required to be licensed by the Texas Consumer Credit Commissioner. Furthermore, the Company is required to supply the Texas Consumer Credit Commissioner with copies of information filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

The maximum allowable pawn service charges for stratified loan amounts made in the State of Texas are set in accordance with the Texas Pawnshop Act. Historically, the maximum allowable pawn service charges under Texas law have not
changed; however, the stratified loan amounts have been adjusted upward by nominal amounts each year. Under Texas law, there is a ceiling on the maximum allowable pawn loan. From July 1, 1998 to June 30, 1999, the loan ceiling was $11,500. For the
period July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2000, the loan ceiling is $11,750. A table of the maximum allowable pawn service charges under the Texas Pawnshop Act for the various stratified loan amounts for July 1, 1998 to June 30, 1999 is presented in "Lending
Activities". 

To be eligible for a license to operate a pawnshop in Texas, an applicant must: be of good moral character, which in the case of a business entity applies to each officer, director, and holder of five percent or more of the 
outstanding shares; (ii) have net unencumbered assets (as defined in the Texas Pawnshop Act) of at least $150,000 readily available for use in conducting the business of each licensed pawnshop; (iii) demonstrate that the applicant has the financial
responsibility, experience, character, and general fitness to command the confidence of the public in its operation; and (iv) demonstrate that the pawnshop will be operated lawfully and fairly in accordance with the Texas Pawnshop Act. Current
applications to the Texas Consumer Credit Commissioner inquire, among other matters, into the credit history and criminal record.

In addition, for applications filed between September 1, 1991 and September 1, 1999, the Texas Pawnshop Act requires the Texas Consumer Credit Commissioner to make a determination of public need and probable profitability, in counties
with a population of 250,000 or more, for a new pawnshop license, or for a relocation of a pawnshop more than one mile away from the existing address. The determination of public need and probable profitability may be made administratively by the
Commissioner; however, if a public hearing is requested by the Commissioner or by any pawnshop licensee that would be affected by the granting of the proposed application, the determination of public need and probable profitability must be made in a
public hearing with notice and opportunity for all affected parties to participate. For a new license application in any Texas county, the Commissioner provides notice of the application, and the opportunity for a public hearing, to the other licensed
pawnshops in the county in which the applicant proposes to operate. The timeframe for the license application approval process generally requires the office to process an application within 60 days of its receipt of a complete application
file. When a public hearing is requested, however, the public hearing process can increase the timeframe substantially or result in no application approval at all. The ability to add newly established stores, particularly in Texas counties
having a population of 250,000 or more where public need and probable profitability must be shown, has been adversely affected by the referenced provisions of the Texas Pawnshop Act. The ability to add newly established stores in such counties
may be adversely affected by such regulation. Effective September 1, 1999, applicable Texas law was amended to provide that, in counties with 250,000 or more people, applications for new licenses will be approved only at proposed locations which are not
less than two miles from another licensed pawnshop, and applications to relocate a license will be approved only for proposed locations which are not less than one mile from another licensed pawnshop. Additionally, any store may relocate to within one
mile of its present location, regardless of the existence of other pawnshops. The ability to add newly established stores in such counties may be adversely affected by such regulation. 

The Texas Consumer Credit Commission may, after notice and hearing, suspend or revoke any license for a Texas pawnshop upon finding, among other matters, that: any fees or charges have not been paid; (ii) the licensee has violated
(whether knowingly or unknowingly without due care) any provisions of the Texas Pawnshop Act or any regulation or order thereunder; or (iii) any fact or condition exists which, if it had existed at the time the original application was filed for a
license, would have justified the Commissioner in refusing such license.

The Texas Pawnshop Act also contains rules about the operation of pawnshops which regulate the day-to-day management of the pawnshops. Under the Pawnshop Act and such rules of operation, a pawnbroker may not do any of the
following: accept a pledge from a person under the age of 18 years; make any agreement requiring the personal liability of the borrower; accept any waiver of any right or protection accorded to a pledgor under the Texas Pawnshop Act; fail to exercise
reasonable care to protect pledged goods from loss or damage; fail to return pledged goods to a pledgor upon payment of the full amount due; make any charge for insurance in connection with a pawn transaction; enter into any pawn transaction that has a
maturity date of more than one month; display for sale in storefront windows or sidewalk display cases, pistols, swords, canes, blackjacks or similar weapons; or purchase used or second hand personal property unless a record is established containing the
name, address, and identification of the seller, a complete description of the property, including serial number, and a signed statement that the seller has the right to sell the property.

Colorado Pawnshop Regulations
Colorado law provides for the licensing and bonding of pawnbrokers in that state. It also requires that pawn transactions be reported to local authorities and that certain bookkeeping records be maintained. Under Colorado law, the
maximum allowable pawn service charge is 240% annually for pawn loans up to $50, and 120% annually for pawn loans in excess of $50.

Oklahoma Pawnshop Regulations
The Oklahoma operations are subject to the Oklahoma Pawnshop Act. Following substantially the same statutory scheme as the Texas Pawnshop Act, the Oklahoma Pawnshop Act provides for, among other matters, the licensing and
bonding of pawnbrokers in Oklahoma and provides for the Oklahoma Administrator of Consumer Credit to investigate the general fitness of the applicant and generally regulate pawnshops in that state. The Administrator has broad rule-making authority with
respect to Oklahoma pawnshops.

In general, the Oklahoma Pawnshop Act prescribes stratified loan amounts and maximum rates of service charges which pawnbrokers in Oklahoma may charge for lending money in Oklahoma within each stratified range of loan amounts. The
regulations provide for a graduated rate structure, similar to the graduated rate structure utilized in federal income tax computations. Under this method of calculation, a $500 loan, for example, earns interest as follows: first $150 at 240%
annually, next $100 at 180% annually, and the remaining $250 at 120% annually. The maximum allowable pawn service charges for the various stratified loan amounts under the Oklahoma statute are as follows:

 


Maximum Allowable
 
 


Amount Financed
 

Annual Percentage


Per Pawn Loan
 

Rate


 $1 to $150
 

240%


 $151 to $250
 

180%


 $251 to $500
 

120%


 $501 to $1,000
 

 60%


$1,001 to $25,000
 

 36%





The amount financed in Oklahoma may not exceed $25,000 per pawn transaction. In addition, the Oklahoma Pawnshop Act requires each applicant to be of good moral character; have net assets of at least $25,000; show that the
pawnshop will be operated lawfully and fairly within the purpose of the Oklahoma Pawnshop Act; and not have been convicted of any felony which directly relates to the duties and responsibilities of the occupation of pawnbroker.

Indiana Pawnshop Regulation
The Indiana operations are regulated by the Department of Financial Institutions. The Department requires all persons or entities to obtain a license to act as a pawnbroker. The Indiana Act provides for the
Department of Financial Institutions to investigate the general fitness of the applicant, to determine whether the convenience and needs of the public will be served by granting an applicant a license, and generally to regulate pawnshops in the state.

The Department of Financial Institutions has broad investigatory and enforcement authority under the statute. The Department may grant, revoke, and suspend licenses. For compliance purposes, pawnshops are required to keep such books,
accounts, and records as will enable the Department to determine if the pawnshop is complying with the statute. Each pawnshop is required to give authorized agents of the Department of Financial Institutions free access to its books and accounts for
these purposes. The Indiana statute allows the following annual rates of interest plus pawn service charges: 276% annually on transactions of $300 or less; 261% annually on transactions greater than $300, but not exceeding $1,000; and 255% annually on
transactions greater than $1,000.

Florida Pawnshop Regulations
Pawnshop transactions in Florida are subject to Florida regulations codified in Chapter 539 of the Florida Statutes. Under such regulations, licensing of pawnshops and regulatory enforcement of such shops is performed by the
Division of Consumer Services of the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. Such regulations require, among other things, that the pawnshop fill out a Pawnbroker Transaction Form showing the customer name, type pawned, and disclosing
the amount of the pawn loan and the applicable finance charges. A copy of each form must be delivered to local law enforcement officials at the end of each business day.
 
Pawn loans in Florida typically have a 30 day maturity date. If the customer does not redeem the loan within 30 days following the maturity date (or the next business day, whichever is later), all right, title, and interest to the
property vests in the pawnbroker. The pawnbroker is entitled to charge two percent of the amount financed for each 30 days as interest, and an additional amount as pawn service charges, provided the total amount of such charge, inclusive of interest,
does not exceed 25% of the amount financed for each 30 day period in a pawn transaction. The pawnbroker may charge a minimum pawn service charge of $5.00 for each 30 day period. Pawns may be extended by agreement, with the charge applicable being
one-thirtieth of the original total pawn service charge for each day by which the loan is extended. For loans redeemed greater than 60 days after the date made, pawn service charges continue to accrue at the daily rate of one-thirtieth of the original
total pawn service charge.

Georgia Pawnshop Regulations
Georgia state law requires pawnbrokers to maintain detailed permanent records concerning pawn transactions and to keep them available for inspection by duly authorized law enforcement authorities. The Georgia statute prohibits
pawnbrokers from failing to make entries of material matters in their permanent records, and allows duly authorized officers to inspect such records. Under applicable Georgia statutes, municipal authorities may license pawnbrokers, define their powers,
and privileges by ordinance, impose taxes upon them, revoke their licenses, and exercise such general supervision as will ensure fair dealing between the pawnbroker and the pawnshop customers.

Georgia law establishes a maximum allowable rate of interest and service charge of 25% of the principal amount of a pawn transaction for each 30 days. This annual rate is in effect for the first 90 days of any pawn transaction or
extension or continuation thereof. The maximum allowable charge for interest and service charges is reduced to 12.5% for each 30 day period thereafter. Georgia law requires a grace period after default on a pawn transaction. During the grace period,
the pawnbroker may not sell the pledged item. The grace period is 30 days for motor vehicles and 10 days for all other pawn collateral.

Alabama Pawnshop Regulations
The Alabama Pawnshop Act regulates the licensing and operation of pawnshops in that state. The general fitness of pawnshop applicants is investigated by the Supervisor of the Bureau of Loans of the State Department of Banking. The
Supervisor also issues pawnshop licenses. The Alabama Pawnshop Act requires that certain bookkeeping records be maintained and made available to the Supervisor and to local law enforcement authorities. The Alabama Pawnshop Act establishes a maximum
allowable pawn service charge of 300% annually.

California Regulations
In California, both state and city or county licenses are required. Applicants must pass a state and local background check, post a bond in the amount of $20,000, and maintain net assets of at least $100,000 per location. Pawn
loans in California require a written contract, which must provide for a four month loan period. If the pledgor does not redeem the loan within such period, the pawnbroker must, within 30 days thereafter, send a notification to the pledgor giving him ten
days from the date of the mailing to redeem the pawn. The pawnbroker may charge up to $2 for this notice.

In California, a pawnbroker may charge an initial set up fee of $2 on a pawn transaction. In addition, a pawnbroker may charge interest of 2.5% per month on loans up to $225; 2.0%
per month on the portion of any loan between $225.01 and $900; 1.5% per month on the portion of any loan between $900.01 and $1,650; and 1.0% per month on the portion of any loan that is $1,650.01 and above. Pawnbrokers may also charge storage fees of $3
for any article that cannot be contained within one cubic foot, $9 for any article that cannot be contained within three cubic feet, and $18 for any article that cannot be contained within six cubic feet. Additionally, pawnbrokers may make service
charges consistent with the following schedule: 





For loans not more than 30 days:

 






Amount Financed
Per Pawn Loan
 

Maximum Allowable
Charge


$1 to $14.99
 

 $1









For loans not more than 90 days:







Amount Financed
 

Maximum Allowable


 Per Pawn Loan
 

 Charge


 $15 to $19.99
 

 $3


 $20 to $24.99
 

 $4


 $25 to $39.99
 

 $5


 $40 to $49.99
 

 $6


 $50 to $64.99
 

 $7.50


 $65 to $74.99
 

 $8.50


 $75 to $99.99
 

 $10


 $100 to $124.99
 

 $12.50


 $125 to $149.99
 

 $13.50


 $150 to $224.99
 

 $15


 $225 to $324.99
 

 $20


 $325 to $449.99
 

 $25


 $450 to $599.99
 

 $35


 $600 to $799.99
 

 $45


 $800 to $999.99
 

 $55







Amount Financed
 

Maximum Allowable


 Per Pawn Loan 
 

Charge


$1,000 to 1,199.99
 

 $70


$1,200 to 1,499.99
 

 $85


$1,500 to 1,799.99
 

 $100


$1,800 to 2,099.99
 

 $120


$2,100 to 2,499.99
 

 $140





Tennessee Pawnshop Regulations
Tennessee law provides for the licensing of pawnbrokers in that state. It further requires that pawn transactions be reported to local law enforcement agencies, requires pawnbrokers to maintain insurance coverage on the
property held in pledge for the benefit of the pledgor, establishes certain hours during which pawnshops may be opened for business, and requires certain bookkeeping records be maintained. Tennessee law prohibits pawnbrokers from selling,
redeeming, or disposing of any goods pledged or pawned to or with them within 15 days after making their report to local law enforcement agencies. 

Applicable Tennessee law provides that pawnbrokers may charge interest of 2% per month, plus service charges of 20% or one-fifth of the amount of the loan for investigating the title, storing, and insuring the pledged goods, closing the
loan, and for other expenses and losses associated with the loan.

Nevada Regulations
In Nevada, all pawn loans must be held for redemption for at least 120 days after the date the loan is made. A pawnbroker may charge interest at the rate of 10% per month for money loaned on the security of personal property
actually received. In addition, the pawnbroker may collect an initial set up fee of $5. Property received in pledge may not be removed from the pawnshop, except when redeemed by the owner, prior to 30 days after a report of the receipt of such property
is reported to the sheriff or chief of police.

Louisiana Pawnshop Regulations
The Louisiana operations are governed by the Louisiana Pawnshop Act. The statute gives regulatory and enforcement powers to the Commissioner of the Office of Financial Institutions within the Department of Economic
Development. This statute provides for, among other things, the licensing and bonding of all pawnbrokers in Louisiana.

Under Louisiana law, the maximum allowable interest charge is 120% annually. In addition, pawnshops may collect a 10% service charge for the first month of a pawn transaction. Louisiana law requires that a pawnbroker hold jewelry that
is pledged as collateral until the lapse of six months prior to resale from the time the loan was entered or extended. The law requires a three-month lapse on oth.

Mississippi Pawnshop Regulations
The Mississippi operations are subject to the Mississippi Pawnshop Act. The Mississippi Pawnshop Act is administered by the Commissioner of Banking. Municipalities in the state may enact ordinances which are in
compliance with, but not more restrictive than those in the Mississippi Pawnshop Act.

The Mississippi Pawnshop Act provides for, among other matters, the licensing of pawnbrokers. The Act also provides for the Commissioner of Banking to investigate the general fitness of the applicant and generally to regulate pawnshops
in the state. The Commissioner has broad rule-making authority with respect to Mississippi pawnshops. The Mississippi Pawnshop Act establishes a maximum allowable pawn service charge of 300% annually.

North Carolina Pawnshop Regulations
In North Carolina, a pawnbroker must obtain a license by showing sufficient net assets and moral character to demonstrate that it will not operate to the detriment of the public. The applicable interest and service charges are two
percent per month interest, and a monthly fee not to exceed 20% for the following: title investigation, handling, appraisal and storage, insuring and security, application fee, making daily reports to law enforcement or other
services. The total monthly fees may not exceed $100 in the first month, $75 in the second month, $75 in the third month, $50 in the fourth month, and for any subsequent months. Pawn loans in North Carolina are to have a 30 day loan term, with a 60 day
grace period, after which time the collateral is subject to resale by the pawnbroker.

Arkansas Pawnshop Regulations
Arkansas law does not provide for the licensing of pawnbrokers or pawnshops in that state. By statute, pawnbrokers must maintain certain records of each pawn transaction and make those records available to local law enforcement
agencies. Arkansas law establishes a maximum allowable interest rate of 17% annually; however, a pawnshop operator may charge reasonable fees for investigating title, storage, and other services.

Local Regulations
At the local level, each pawnshop, voluntarily or pursuant to municipal ordinance, provides copies of transactions involving pawn loans and over-the-counter purchases to the local police department. These daily transaction reports are
designed to provide the local police with a detailed description of the goods involved, including serial numbers, if any, and the names and addresses of the owners obtained from valid identification cards.

A copy of each transaction ticket is provided to local law enforcement agencies for processing by the National Crime Investigative Computer to determine rightful ownership. Goods held to secure pawn loans or goods purchased which are
determined to belong to an owner other than the borrower or seller are subject to recovery by the rightful owner. While a risk exists that pledged or purchased merchandise may be subject to claims of rightful owners, historically, the Company has
experienced such claims with respect to less than 0.5% of pawn loans made.

There can be no assurance that additional local, state, or federal legislation will not be enacted or that existing laws and regulations will not be amended which would materially, adversely impact the operations and financial
condition.

Firearms Regulations
With respect to gun sales, each pawnshop that sells firearms must comply with the regulations promulgated by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (BATF) which require each pawnshop dealing in guns to maintain a
permanent written record of all transactions involving the receipt or disposition of guns.

The BATF promulgated rules under the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (the "Brady Act") on February 28, 1994. The rules, in effect until November 30, 1998, basically required that all licensees, in either selling inventoried
firearms or releasing pawned firearms to people other than the original pledgor, have the buyer complete appropriate forms, and wait the requisite five-day period prior to completing the sale and delivering the firearm. On November 30, 1998, the permanent provisions of the Brady Act took effect. From that date,
all purchases of firearms and all people redeeming pledged firearm property must complete a background check before the transfer of the firearm can be completed.

The Company complies with the Brady Act, and rules promulgated by the United States Department of the Treasury relating thereto. The Company does not believe that compliance with the Brady Act and the new rules promulgated thereunder
have materially affected the operations. There can be no assurance, however, that compliance with the Brady Act will not adversely affect the operations.

YEAR 1998, CIK 825313, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

 The Partnership was formed in 1987 to succeed to the business of ACMC which
began providing investment management services in 1971. On April 21, 1988 the
business and substantially all of the operating assets of ACMC were conveyed to
the Partnership in exchange for a 1% general partnership interest in the
Partnership and approximately 55% of the outstanding Units. In December 1991
ACMC transferred its 1% general partnership interest in the Partnership to
Alliance.
 
 On February 19, 1998 the Partnership declared a two for one Unit split
payable to Unitholders of record on March 11, 1998. No adjustments have been
made to the number of Units outstanding or per Unit amounts except 5,
Item 6, Item 7 and Item 8.

 As of March 1, 1998 ECI and Equitable were the beneficial owners of
48,089,183 Units or approximately 56.8% of the issued and outstanding Units
including 551,395 Units issuable upon conversion of the Class A Limited
Partnership Interest issued to ECMC in 1993 when the business and substantially
all of the assets of ECMC were transferred to the Partnership. The Class A
Limited Partnership Interest may be convertible into additional Units valued at
up to $14.5 million under a formula based on contingent incentive fees received
by the Partnership prior to April 1, 1998.

 As of March 1, 1998 AXA and its subsidiaries owned approximately 59% of the
issued and outstanding shares of the common stock of ECI. ECI is a public
company with shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. ("NYSE"). ECI
owns all of the shares of Equitable. For insurance regulatory purposes all
shares of common stock of ECI beneficially owned by AXA have been deposited into
a voting trust (the "Voting Trust"). AXA remains the beneficial owner of all
capital stock deposited in the Voting Trust, but during the term of the Voting
Trust the trustees thereunder (the "Voting Trustees") exercise 


 1


all voting rights with respect to such capital stock. See 12. Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management".

 AXA, a French company, is the holding company for an international group of
insurance and related financial services companies. insurance operations
include activities in life insurance, property and casualty insurance and
reinsurance. The insurance operations are diverse geographically with
activities, principally in Western Europe, North America, and the Asia/Pacific
area. AXA is also engaged in asset management, investment banking, securities
trading, brokerage, real estate and other financial services activities
principally in the United States, as well as in Western Europe and the
Asia/Pacific area.

 Based on information provided by AXA, on March 1, 1998, approximately 21.4%
of the issued ordinary shares (representing 30.2% of the voting power) of AXA
were controlled directly and indirectly by Finaxa, a French holding company. As
of March 1, 1998, 62.0% of the shares (representing 74.0% of the voting power)
of Finaxa were owned by four French mutual insurance companies (the "Mutuelles
AXA") (one of which, AXA Assurances I.A.R.D. Mutuelle, owned 35.5% of the
shares, representing 42.2% of the voting power), and 23.1% of the shares of
Finaxa (representing 14.4% of the voting power) were owned by Banque Paribas, a
French bank ("Paribas"). Including the ordinary shares owned by Finaxa, on
March 1, 1998, the Mutuelles AXA directly or indirectly controlled approximately
24.7% of the issued ordinary shares (representing 34.8% of the voting power) of
AXA. Acting as a group, the Mutuelles AXA control AXA and Finaxa.
 
 The Partnership, one of the largest investment advisers, provides
diversified investment management services to institutional clients and high
net-worth individuals and, through various investment vehicles, to individual
investors.
 
 The separately managed accounts consist primarily of the
active management of equity and fixed income accounts for institutions and high
net-worth individuals. The institutional clients include
corporate and public employee pension funds, the general and separate accounts
of Equitable and its insurance company subsidiaries, endowments, foundations,
and other domestic and foreign institutions. The mutual funds
management services, which developed as a diversification of its institutional
investment management business, consist of the management, distribution and
servicing of mutual funds and cash management products, including money market
funds and deposit accounts.


 2


 The following tables provide a summary of assets under management and
associated revenues of the Partnership:


 ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
 (in millions)




 December 31,
 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
 
Separately Managed
 Accounts $ 76,615 $ 81,030 $ 97,275 $119,507 $133,706
Mutual Funds Management :
 Alliance Mutual Funds 22,045 20,736 23,462 28,302 41,868
 The Hudson River Trust 7,171 8,360 11,964 16,392 22,338
 Cash Management Services . . . 8,148 9,153 13,820 18,591 20,742
 Total $113,979 $119,279 $146,521 $182,792 $218,654
 


 REVENUES
 (in thousands)


 Years Ended December 31,
 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
 
Separately Managed
 Accounts $191,108 $212,500 $232,132 $280,909 $322,850
Mutual Funds Management :
 Alliance Mutual Funds 221,005 291,975 278,328 330,356 440,389
 The Hudson River Trust . . . . 18,090 22,045 29,119 42,380 59,936
 Cash Management Services . . . 64,464 69,514 91,135 127,265 146,152
Other 4,850 4,918 8,541 7,607 6,009
 
Total $499,517 $600,952 $639,255 $788,517 $975,336
 


 Includes the general and separate accounts of Equitable and its insurance
 company subsidiaries.
 Includes money market deposit accounts brokered by the Partnership for
 which no investment management services are performed.
 Net of certain fees paid to Equitable for services rendered by Equitable in
 marketing the variable annuity insurance and variable life products for
 which The Hudson River Trust is the funding vehicle.
 Assets under management include 100% of the amounts under management by
 unconsolidated joint venture subsidiaries.


 3


SEPARATELY MANAGED ACCOUNTS

 As of December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997 separately managed accounts for
institutional and high net-worth individuals (other than investment companies
and deposit accounts) represented approximately 66%, 65% and 61%, respectively,
of total assets under management by the Partnership. The fees earned from the
management of these accounts represented approximately 36%, 36% and 33% of the
 revenues for 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.

 SEPARATELY MANAGED ACCOUNTS ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
 (in millions)




 December 31,
 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
 
Equity & Balanced:
 Domestic $ 29,382 $ 30,063 $ 42,332 $ 50,835 $ 60,826
 International & Global. . . 2,913 3,828 3,854 3,533 5,270
Fixed Income:
 Domestic 28,596 31,470 32,553 36,042 39,079
 International & Global. . . 2,252 2,602 1,891 1,546 1,833
Passive:
 Domestic 11,240 9,645 12,787 15,478 19,860
 International & Global. . . 1,760 3,028 3,484 3,411 2,866
Asset Allocation:
 Domestic 472 394 374 457 433
 International & Global. . . -- -- -- 8,205 3,336
Joint Ventures -- -- -- -- 203
 
Total $ 76,615 $ 81,030 $ 97,275 $119,507 $133,706
 


 Assets reflect 100% of the assets under management by unconsolidated joint
 venture subsidiaries.


 REVENUES FROM SEPARATELY MANAGED ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT
 (in thousands)



 Years Ended December 31,
 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
 
Investment Services:
Equity & Balanced:
 Domestic $ 95,245 $107,581 $131,792 $156,690 $182,787
 International & Global. . . 7,166 10,867 10,373 9,848 14,471
Fixed Income:
 Domestic 66,131 70,217 67,102 65,449 80,600
 International & Global. . . 4,895 5,180 3,784 3,901 5,372
Passive:
 Domestic 6,220 6,016 5,919 8,015 9,187
 International & Global. . . 2,790 4,052 3,870 3,612 3,034
Asset Allocation:
 Domestic 1,274 1,064 1,010 821 1,413
 International & Global. . . -- -- -- 24,096 17,356
 183,721 204,977 223,850 272,432 314,220
Service and Other Fees. . . . 7,387 7,523 8,282 8,477 8,630
 
Total $191,108 $212,500 $232,132 $280,909 $322,850
 


 4


INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES

 The separately managed accounts consist primarily of the
active management of equity accounts, balanced (equity and fixed income)
accounts and fixed income accounts for institutions and high net-worth
individuals. The Partnership also provides active management for international
(non-U.S.) and global (including U.S.) equity, balanced and fixed income
portfolios, asset allocation portfolios, venture capital portfolios, investment
partnership portfolios known as hedge funds and portfolios that invest in real
estate investment trusts. The Partnership provides "passive" management
services for equity, fixed income and international accounts. As of December
31, 1997 the accounts were managed by 103 portfolio managers with
an average of 18 years of experience in the industry and 12 years of experience
with the Partnership.

 EQUITY AND BALANCED ACCOUNTS. The equity and balanced
accounts contributed approximately 22%, 21% and 20% of the total
revenues for 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively. Assets under management
relating to active equity and balanced accounts grew from approximately $29.4
billion as of December 31, 1992 to approximately $66.1 billion as of December
31, 1997.

 The Partnership has had a distinct and consistent style of equity
investing. The Partnership does not emphasize market timing as an investment
tool but instead emphasizes long-term trends and objectives, generally remaining
fully invested. The equity strategy is to invest in the
securities of companies experiencing growing earnings momentum which are known
as growth stocks. The result of these investment characteristics is that the
 client portfolios tend to have, as compared to the average of
companies comprising the Standard & Index of 500 Stocks ("S&P 500"), a
greater market price volatility, a lower average yield and a higher average
price-earnings ratio.

 The principal method of securities evaluation is through
fundamental analysis undertaken by its internal staff of full-time research
analysts, supplemented by research undertaken by the portfolio
managers. The Partnership holds frequent investment strategy meetings in which
XX management, portfolio managers and research analysts discuss investment
strategy. The portfolio managers construct and maintain
portfolios that adhere to each guidelines and conform to the
 current investment strategy.

 The balanced accounts consist of an equity component and a
fixed income component. Typically, from 50% to 75% of a balanced account is
managed in the same manner as a separate equity account, while the remaining
fixed income component is oriented toward capital preservation and income
generation.

 FIXED INCOME ACCOUNTS. The fixed income accounts contributed
approximately 11%, 9% and 9% of the total revenues for 1995, 1996
and 1997, respectively. Assets under management relating to active fixed income
accounts increased from approximately $28.8 billion as of December 31, 1992 to
approximately $41.0 billion as of December 31, 1997.

 The fixed income management services include conventional
actively managed bond portfolios in which portfolio maturity structures, market
sector concentrations and other characteristics are actively shifted in
anticipation of market changes. Fixed income management services also include
managing portfolios investing in foreign government securities and other foreign
debt securities. Sector concentrations and other portfolio characteristics are
heavily committed to areas that the portfolio managers believe
have the best investment values. The Partnership also manages portfolios that
are limited to specialized areas of the fixed income markets, such as
mortgage-backed securities and high-yield bonds.

 PRIVATE INVESTING SERVICES. In 1996 the Partnership acquired a 40%
interest in Albion Alliance LLC ("Albion Alliance") which is its primary vehicle
for providing global investing services in respect of private and illiquid
securities to institutions and high net-worth individuals.

 Alliance Corporate Finance Group Incorporated ("ACFG"), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Partnership, was formed in 1993 when the business of ECMC was
acquired to manage investments in private mezzanine financings and private
investment limited partnerships. Private mezzanine financings are investments
in the subordinated debt and/or preferred stock 


 5


portions of leveraged transactions (such as leveraged buy-outs and leveraged
recapitalizations). Such investments are usually coupled with a contingent
interest component or investment in an equity participation, which provide the
potential for capital appreciation. Since Albion Alliance is now the
 primary vehicle for providing these types of services it is not
expected that ACFG will manage any new private investments other than for
Equitable and its subsidiaries.

 ACFG manages two private mezzanine investment funds designed for
institutional investors, with an aggregate of approximately $224 million under
management as of December 31, 1997. As of that date Equitable and its insurance
company subsidiaries had investments of approximately $39 million in these
funds.

 ACFG also manages two limited partnerships regulated as business
development companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940 ("Investment
Company Act") which invest primarily in private mezzanine financings. As of
December 31, 1997 these funds had net assets of approximately $42 million. 
 
 The Partnership manages 17 structured products with an aggregate of $5.1
billion in assets as of December 31, 1997. Structured products consist of
securities, typically multiple classes of XX and subordinated debt
obligations together with an equity component, issued by a special purpose
company. An actively or passively managed portfolio of equity or fixed income
securities or other financial products generally backs such securities. A
majority of the structured product assets are based on a short
duration fixed income strategy, including the five "Pegasus" transactions which,
as of December 31, 1997, had an aggregate of $3.2 billion in assets. The
Partnership also manages two collateralized bond obligation funds whose pools of
collateral debt securities consist primarily of privately-placed, fixed rate
corporate debt securities acquired from Equitable and its affiliates. As of
December 31, 1997 these funds had approximately $209 million under management. 
As of that date ECI and its insurance company subsidiaries had investments of
approximately $181 million in these funds.

 HEDGE FUNDS. As of December 31, 1997, the Partnership managed hedge funds
and separately managed hedge accounts which had approximately $1.1 billion in
assets under management in four distinct strategies. The hedge
funds are privately placed domestic and offshore investment vehicles. The
portfolios of the hedge funds consist of various types of securities, including
equities, domestic and foreign government and other debt securities, convertible
securities, warrants, options and futures. The hedge funds take short
positions, including the purchase of put options on securities, market indices
or futures. The hedge funds employ the use of leverage through securities
exposure and borrowings.

 PASSIVE MANAGEMENT. The strategy in passive portfolio
management is to provide customized portfolios to meet specialized client needs,
such as a portfolio designed to replicate a particular index. The Partnership
offers domestic and international indexation strategies, such as portfolios
designed to match the performance characteristics of the S&P 500 and the Morgan
Stanley Capital International Indices and enhanced indexation strategies
designed to add incremental returns to a benchmark. The Partnership also offers
a variety of structured fixed income portfolio applications, including
immunization (designed to produce a compound rate of return over a specified
time, irrespective of interest rate movements), dedication (designed to produce
specific cash flows at specific times to fund known liabilities) and indexation
(designed to replicate the return of a specified market index or benchmark). A
subsidiary of the Partnership is the manager of two passive U.K. unit trusts
which invest in small capitalization common stocks on a global basis. As of
December 31, 1997 the Partnership managed approximately $22.7 billion in passive
portfolios.

 GLOBAL ASSET ALLOCATION. On February 29, 1996 the Partnership acquired
substantially all of the assets and assumed substantially all of the liabilities
of Cursitor Holdings L.P. and acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cursitor
Holdings Limited (collectively, "Cursitor"). investment style is
global asset allocation: investing client funds in stocks or bonds of the
 principal capital markets. A new subsidiary of the Partnership,
Cursitor Alliance LLC ("Cursitor Alliance") was formed for purposes of the
acquisition. Cursitor Alliance and its subsidiaries provide global asset
allocation services to U.S. and non-U.S. institutions. Cursitor 
investment performance results in 1996 and 1997 were poor and Cursitor Alliance
has experienced significant account terminations as a consequence thereof. See
 7. Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations".


 6


CLIENTS

 The approximately 1,653 separately managed accounts for institutions and
high net-worth individuals (other than investment companies) for which the
Partnership acts as investment manager include corporate employee benefit plans,
public employee retirement systems, the general and separate accounts of
Equitable and its insurance company subsidiaries, endowments, foundations,
foreign governments, multi-employer pension plans and financial and other
institutions. 

 The general and separate accounts of Equitable and its insurance company
subsidiaries, which were transferred to the Partnership in 1993 in connection
with the acquisition of the business and substantially all of the assets of
ECMC, are the largest institutional clients. As of December 31,
1997 these accounts, excluding investments made by these accounts in The Hudson
River Trust (See "Individual Investor Services - The Hudson River Trust"),
represented approximately 14% of total assets under management by the
Partnership and approximately 7% of the total revenues for 1997.

 As of December 31, 1997 corporate employee benefit plan accounts
represented approximately 12% of total assets under management by the
Partnership. Assets under management for other tax-exempt accounts, including
public employee benefit funds organized by government agencies and
municipalities, endowments, foundations and multi-employer employee benefit
plans, represented approximately 33% of total assets under management as of
December 31, 1997.

 The following table lists the twelve largest institutional
clients, ranked in order of size of total assets under management as of December
31, 1997. Since the fee schedules vary based on the type of
account, the table does not reflect the ten largest revenue generating clients.


Client or Sponsoring Employer Type of Account
 
Equitable and its insurance
 company subsidiaries Equity, Fixed Income, Passive
North Carolina Retirement System Passive Equity, U.S. Equity,
 Global Equity
A Foreign Government Central Bank Equity, Global Equity,
 Fixed Income, Global
 Fixed Income
State Board of Administration of Florida . . Equity, Fixed Income
New York State Common Retirement System . . . Equity
BellSouth Corporation Passive Equity
National Mutual Funds Management Global Equity, Global Fixed
 Income
New York State Retirement System. . Passive Equity, Equity
Wyoming Retirement System Equity
Frank Russell Trust U.S. Equity

 These institutional clients accounted for approximately 27% of the
 total assets under management at December 31, 1997 and
approximately 10% of the total revenues for the year ended
December 31, 1997 (37% and 16%, respectively, if the investments by the separate
accounts of Equitable in The Hudson River Trust were included). No single
institutional client other than Equitable and its insurance company subsidiaries
accounted for more than approximately 1% of the total revenues for
the year ended December 31, 1997. The general and separate accounts of
Equitable and its insurance company subsidiaries accounted for approximately 14%
of the total assets under management at December 31, 1997 and
approximately 7% of the total revenues for the year ended December
31, 1997 (24% and 13%, respectively, if the investments by the separate accounts
of Equitable in The Hudson River Trust were included).

 Since its inception, the Partnership has experienced periods when it gained
significant numbers of new accounts or amounts of assets under management and
periods when it lost significant accounts or assets under management. These


 7


fluctuations result from, among other things, the relative attractiveness of the
 investment style or level of performance under prevailing market
conditions, changes in the investment patterns of clients that result in a shift
in assets under management and other circumstances such as changes in the
management or control of a client.

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS AND FEES

 The separately managed accounts are managed pursuant to a
written investment management agreement between the client and the Partnership,
which usually is terminable at any time or upon relatively short notice by
either party. In general, the contracts may not be assigned
without the consent of the client.

 In providing investment management services to institutional clients, the
Partnership is principally compensated on the basis of fees calculated as a
percentage of assets under management. Fees are generally billed quarterly and
are calculated on the value of an account at the beginning or end of a quarter
or on the average of such values during the quarter. As a result, fluctuations
in the amount or value of assets under management are reflected in revenues from
management fees within two calendar quarters.

 Management fees paid on equity and balanced accounts are generally charged
in accordance with a fee schedule that ranges from 0.75% (for the first $10
million in assets) to 0.25% (for assets over $60 million) per annum of assets
under management. Fees for the management of fixed income portfolios generally
are charged in accordance with lower fee schedules, while fees for passive
equity portfolios typically are even lower. Fees for the management of hedge
funds are higher than the fees charged for equity and balanced accounts and also
provide for the payment of performance fees or carried interests to the
Partnership. With respect to approximately 5% of assets under management, the
Partnership charges performance-based fees, which consist of a relatively low
base fee plus an additional fee if investment performance for the account
exceeds certain benchmarks. No assurance can be given that such fee
arrangements will not become more common in the investment management industry. 
Utilization of such fee arrangements by the Partnership on a broader basis could
create greater fluctuations in the revenues. 

 fees for corporate finance activities generally involve the payment
of a base management fee ranging from 0.10% to 1.00% of assets under management
per annum. In some cases ACFG receives performance fees generally equivalent to
20% of gains in excess of a specified hurdle rate. 

 In connection with the investment advisory services provided to the general
and separate accounts of Equitable and its insurance company subsidiaries the
Partnership provides ancillary accounting, valuation, reporting, treasury and
other services. Equitable and its insurance company subsidiaries compensate the
Partnership for such services. See 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions".

MARKETING

 The institutional products are marketed by marketing
specialists who solicit business for the entire range of the 
institutional account management services. Marketing specialists are dedicated
to corporate and insurance plans as well as public retirement systems,
multi-employer pension plans and the hedge fund marketplace. The 
institutional marketing structure supports its commitment to provide
comprehensive and timely client service. A client service representative is
assigned to each institutional account. This individual is available to meet
with the client as often as necessary and attends client meetings with the
portfolio manager.

MUTUAL FUNDS MANAGEMENT

 The Partnership manages and sponsors a broad range of open-end and
closed-end mutual funds other than The Hudson River Trust and markets wrap fee
accounts ("Alliance Mutual Funds"), (ii) manages The Hudson River Trust which is
one of the funding vehicles for variable annuity insurance and variable life
insurance products offered by Equitable and its insurance company subsidiaries,
and (iii) provides cash management services (money market funds and federally
insured deposit accounts) that are marketed to individual investors through
broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries. 
The net assets comprising the Alliance Mutual Funds, The Hudson River Trust and
money market funds and deposit accounts on December 31, 1997 amounted to
approximately $84.9 billion. The assets of the Alliance 


 8


Mutual Funds, The Hudson River Trust and the money market funds are managed by
the same investment professionals who manage the accounts of
institutional and high net-worth individuals.

 REVENUES FROM MUTUAL FUNDS MANAGEMENT
 (in thousands)



 Years Ended December 31,
 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
 
Alliance Mutual Funds:
Investment Services $109,692 $147,496 $147,407 $175,465 $242,834
Distribution Plan Fees 89,253 117,509 105,405 126,930 164,880
Services and Other Fees 16,901 23,491 23,779 25,607 29,605
Underwriting Commissions 5,159 3,479 1,737 2,354 3,070
 221,005 291,975 278,328 330,356 440,389
 The Hudson River Trust:
Investment Services 17,148 21,655 28,680 41,696 59,155
Distribution Plan Fees - - - - - - - - 54
Services and Other Fees 942 390 366 500 641
Underwriting Commissions - - - - 73 184 86
 18,090 22,045 29,119 42,380 59,936
 Cash Management Services:
Investment Services 40,202 42,018 56,642 74,441 82,770
Distribution Plan Fees 16,007 18,104 23,328 39,481 48,758
Services and Other Fees 7,890 9,383 11,165 13,343 14,624
Underwriting Commissions 365 9 - - - - - -
 64,464 69,514 91,135 127,265 146,152
 Total $303,559 $383,534 $398,582 $500,001 $646,477
 

 Net of certain fees paid to Equitable for services rendered by Equitable in
 marketing the variable annuity insurance and variable life products for
 which The Hudson River Trust is the funding vehicle.
 Includes fees received by the Partnership in connection with its
 distribution of money market deposit accounts for which no investment
 management services are provided.


 9


ALLIANCE MUTUAL FUNDS

 The Partnership has been managing mutual funds since 1971. Since then, the
Partnership has sponsored open-end load mutual funds, closed-end mutual funds
and offshore funds. On December 31, 1997 net assets in the Alliance Mutual
Funds totaled approximately $41.9 billion.



 Net Assets as
 of December
 31, 1997 
 Type of Alliance Mutual Funds (in millions)
 
 Domestic Open-End Funds:
 Equity and Balanced$ 14,980.7
 Taxable Fixed Income 6,241.4
 Tax Exempt Fixed Income 2,467.0
 Offshore Funds (Open and Closed-End) 8,936.5
 Domestic Closed-End Funds 4,211.8
 Wrap Fee Programs 2,848.1
 Variable Product Series Funds 1,492.1
 Joint Ventures 690.2
 
 Total $ 41,867.8
 


 Assets reflect 100% of assets under management by unconsolidated joint
 venture subsidiaries.

THE HUDSON RIVER TRUST

 The Hudson River Trust is one of the funding vehicles for the variable
annuity and variable life insurance products offered by Equitable and its
insurance company subsidiaries. On December 31, 1997 the net assets of the
portfolios of The Hudson River Trust were as follows:




 Net Assets as
 of December
 31, 1997 
 (in millions)
 
 Common Stock Portfolio$ 9,560.0
 Aggressive Stock Portfolio 4,663.8
 Balanced Portfolio 1,724.1
 Growth Investors Portfolio 1,666.1
 Global Portfolio 1,225.4
 Equity Index Fund 943.6
 Growth & Income Portfolio 587.7
 Money Market Portfolio 573.6
 High Yield Portfolio 421.8
 Conservative Investors Portfolio 313.6
 Quality Bond Portfolio 203.2
 International Portfolio 193.9
 Small Cap Growth Portfolio 141.0
 Intermediate Government Portfolio 120.1
 
 Total $ 22,337.9
 


 10



 DISTRIBUTION. The Alliance Mutual Funds are distributed to individual
investors through broker-dealers, insurance sales representatives, banks,
registered investment advisers, financial planners and other financial
intermediaries. Alliance Fund Distributors, Inc. ("AFD"), a registered
broker-dealer and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Partnership, serves as the
principal underwriter and distributor of the Alliance Mutual Funds registered
under the Investment Company Act as "open-end" investment companies ("U.S. 
Funds") and serves as a placing or distribution agent for most of the 
Alliance Mutual Funds which are not registered under the Investment Company 
Act and which are not publicly offered to United States persons ("Offshore 
Funds"). There are 76 sales representatives who devote their time exclusively 
to promoting the sale of shares of Alliance Mutual Funds by financial 
intermediaries.
 
 The Partnership maintains a mutual fund distribution system (the "System")
which permits open-end Alliance Mutual Funds to offer investors the option of
purchasing shares subject to a conventional front-end sales charge
("Front-End Load Shares") and without a front-end sales charge but subject
to a contingent deferred sales charge payable by shareholders ("CDSC") and
higher distribution plan fees and transfer agent costs payable by the Alliance
Mutual Funds ("Back-End Load Shares"). If a shareholder purchases Front-End
Load Shares, AFD compensates the financial intermediary distributing the
Alliance Mutual Fund from the front-end sales charge paid by the shareholder at
the time of each sale. If a shareholder purchases Back-End Load Shares, AFD
does not collect a front-end sales charge even though AFD is obligated to
compensate the financial intermediary at the time of each sale. Payments made to
financial intermediaries during 1997 in connection with the sale of Back-End
Load Shares under the System, net of CDSC received, totaled approximately $150.3
million. Management of the Partnership believes AFD will recover the payments
made to financial intermediaries from the higher distribution fees and CDSC it
receives in respect of the Back-End Load Shares over periods not exceeding 5 1/2
years. 
 
 The rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
effectively limit the aggregate of all front-end, deferred and asset-based sales
charges paid to AFD with respect to any class of its shares by each open-end
U.S. Fund to 6.25% of cumulative gross sales of shares of that class, plus 
interest at the prime rate plus 1% per annum.

 The open-end U.S. Funds and Offshore Funds have entered into agreements
with AFD under which AFD is paid a distribution services fee. The Partnership
uses borrowings and its own resources to finance distribution of open-end
Alliance Mutual Fund shares.

 The selling and distribution agreements between AFD and the financial
intermediaries that distribute Alliance Mutual Funds are terminable by either
party upon notice (generally of not more than sixty days) and do not obligate
the financial intermediary to sell any specific amount of fund shares. A small
amount of mutual fund sales is made directly by AFD, in which case AFD retains
the entire sales charge.

 During 1997 the ten financial intermediaries responsible for the largest
volume of sales of Alliance Mutual Funds were responsible for 67% of the total
sales of Alliance Mutual Funds. Equico Securities, Inc. ("Equico"), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Equitable that utilizes members of 
insurance agency sales force as its registered representatives, has entered into
a selected dealer agreement with AFD and since 1986 has been responsible for a
significant portion of total open-end U.S. Fund sales (8% in 1997). Equico is
under no obligation to sell a specific amount of fund shares and also sells
shares of mutual funds sponsored by organizations unaffiliated with Equitable.
 
 Subsidiaries of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (collectively "Merrill Lynch")
were responsible for approximately 19%, 17% and 25% of Alliance Mutual Fund
sales in 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively. Smith Barney Inc. ("Smith Barney")
was responsible for approximately 8% of Alliance Mutual Fund sales in 1995, 1996
and 1997. Neither Merrill Lynch nor Smith Barney is under any obligation to
sell a specific amount of Alliance Mutual Fund shares and each also sells shares
of mutual funds that it sponsors and which are sponsored by unaffiliated
organizations.
 
 No dealer or agent other than Equico, Merrill Lynch and Smith Barney has in
any year since 1990 accounted for more than 10% of the sales of open-end
Alliance Mutual Funds.
 
 Many of the financial intermediaries that sell shares of Alliance Mutual
Funds also offer shares of funds not managed by the Partnership and frequently
offer shares of funds managed by their own affiliates.


 11



 Based on market data reported by the Investment Company Institute (January
1997), the market share in the U.S. mutual fund industry is 1.10%
of total industry assets and the Partnership accounted for 0.84% of total
open-end and closed-end fund sales-force derived industry sales in the U.S.
during 1997. While the performance of the Alliance Mutual Funds is a factor in
the sale of their shares, there are other factors contributing to success in the
mutual fund management business that are not as important in the institutional
account management business. These factors include the level and quality of
shareholder services (see "Shareholder and Administration Services" below) and
the amounts and types of distribution assistance and administrative services
payments. The Partnership believes that its compensation programs with
financial intermediaries are competitive with others in the industry.
 
 Under current interpretations of the Glass-Steagall Act and other laws and
regulations governing depository institutions, banks and certain of their
affiliates generally are permitted to act as agent for their customers in
connection with the purchase of mutual fund shares and to receive as
compensation a portion of the sales charges paid with respect to such purchases.
During 1997 banks and their affiliates accounted for approximately 5% of the
sales of shares of open-end Alliance Mutual Funds.
 
 INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS AND FEES. Investment management fees from
the Alliance Mutual Funds and The Hudson River Trust vary between .20% and 1.80%
per annum of average net assets. As certain of the U.S. Funds have grown, fee
schedules have been revised to provide lower incremental fees above certain
levels. Fees paid by the U.S. Funds and The Hudson River Trust are fixed
annually by negotiation between the Partnership and the board of directors or
trustees of each U.S. Fund and The Hudson River Trust, including a majority of
the disinterested directors or trustees. Changes in fees must be approved by
the shareholders of each U.S. Fund and The Hudson River Trust. In general, the
investment management agreements with the U.S. Funds and The Hudson River Trust
provide for termination at any time upon 60 days' notice.
 
 Under each investment management agreement with a U.S. Fund, the
Partnership provides the U.S. Fund with investment management services, office
space and order placement facilities and pays all compensation of directors or
trustees and officers of the U.S. Fund who are affiliated persons of the
Partnership. Each U.S. Fund pays all of its other expenses. If the expenses of
a U.S. Fund exceed an expense limit established under the securities laws of any
state in which shares of that U.S. Fund are qualified for sale or as prescribed
in the U.S. investment management agreement, the Partnership absorbs such
excess through a reduction in the investment management fee. Currently, the
Partnership believes that California and South Dakota are the only states to
impose such a limit. The expense ratios for the U.S. Funds during their most
recent fiscal year ranged from .92% to 4.27%. In connection with newly
organized U.S. Funds, the Partnership may also agree to reduce its fee or bear
certain expenses to limit a expenses during an initial period of
operations.


 12



CASH MANAGEMENT SERVICES

 The Partnership provides cash management services to individual investors
through a product line comprising nineteen money market fund portfolios and
three types of brokered money market deposit accounts. Net assets in these
products as of December 31, 1997 totaled approximately $20.7 billion.



 Net Assets as 
 of December
 31, 1997
 (in millions)
 
 Money Market Funds:
 Alliance Capital Reserves (two portfolios) . . . . $ 7,548.0
 Alliance Government Reserves (two portfolios). . . 4,964.2
 Alliance Money Market Fund (three portfolios). . . 3,424.5
 Alliance Municipal Trust (eight portfolios). . . . 2,548.9
 ACM Institutional Reserves (four portfolios) . . . 1,989.2

 Money Market Deposit Accounts (three products) 240.3
 Joint Ventures 26.9
 
 Total $ 20,742.0
 

 Assets reflect 100% of assets under management by unconsolidated joint
 venture subsidiaries.

 The Partnership also offers a managed assets program, which provides
customers of participating financial intermediaries with a Visa card, access to
automated teller machines and check writing privileges. The program is linked
to the chosen Alliance money market fund. The program serves to
enhance relationships with financial intermediaries and to attract and retain
investments in the Alliance money market funds, as well as to generate fee
income.

 Under its investment management agreement with each money market fund, the
Partnership is paid an investment management fee equal to 0.50% per annum of the
 average net assets except for ACM Institutional Reserves which pays a fee
between 0.20% and 0.45% of its average net assets. In the case of Alliance
Capital Reserves and Alliance Government Reserves, the fee is payable at lesser
rates with respect to average net assets in excess of $1.25 billion. For
distribution and account maintenance services rendered in connection with the
sale of money market deposit accounts, the Partnership receives fees from the
participating banks that are based on outstanding account balances. Because the
money market deposit account programs involve no investment management functions
to be performed by the Partnership, the costs of maintaining the
account programs are less, on a relative basis, than its costs of managing the
money market funds.
 
 On December 31, 1997 more than 99% of the assets invested in the
 cash management programs were attributable to regional
broker-dealers and other financial intermediaries, with the remainder coming
directly from the public. On December 31, 1997 more than 500 financial
intermediaries offered the cash management services. The
 money market fund market share (not including deposit products),
as computed based on market data reported by the Investment Company Institute
(December 1997), has increased from 1.17% of total money market fund industry
assets at the end of 1992 to 1.95% at December 31, 1997.
 
 The Partnership makes payments to financial intermediaries for distribution
assistance and shareholder servicing and administration. The 
money market funds pay fees to the Partnership at annual rates of up to 0.25% of
average daily net assets pursuant to "Rule 12b-1" distribution plans except for
Alliance Money Market Fund which pays a fee of up to 0.45% of its average daily
net assets. Such payments are supplemented by the Partnership in making
payments to financial intermediaries under the distribution assistance and
shareholder servicing and administration program. During 1997 such supplemental
payments totaled $49.0 million ($44.4 million in 1996). There are 7 employees
of the Partnership who devote their time exclusively to marketing the
 cash management services.


 13



 A principal risk to the cash management services business is
the acquisition of its participating financial intermediaries by companies that
are competitors or that plan to enter the cash management services business. As
of December 31, 1997 the five largest participating financial intermediaries
were responsible for assets aggregating approximately $17.2 billion, or 83% of
the cash management services total. 
 
 Many of the financial intermediaries whose customers utilize the
 cash management services are broker-dealers whose customer
accounts are carried, and whose securities transactions are cleared and settled,
by the Pershing Division ("Pershing") of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities
Corporation ("DLJ Securities Corporation"), a subsidiary of ECI. Pursuant to an
agreement between Pershing and the Partnership, Pershing recommends that certain
of its correspondent firms use of the money market funds and other
cash management products. As of December 31, 1997 DLJ Securities Corporation
and these Pershing correspondents were responsible for approximately $11.4
billion or 55% of the total cash management assets. Pershing may
terminate its agreement with the Partnership on 180 days' notice. If the
agreement were terminated, Pershing would be under no obligation to recommend or
in any way assist in the sale of the cash management products and
would be free to recommend or assist in the sale of competitive products. 
 
 The money market funds are investment companies registered
under the Investment Company Act and are managed under the supervision of boards
of directors or trustees, which include disinterested directors or trustees who
must approve investment management agreements and certain other matters. The
investment management agreements between the money market funds and the
Partnership provide for an expense limitation of 1% per annum or less of average
daily net assets. See "Alliance Mutual Funds - Investment Management Agreements
and Fees".

SHAREHOLDER AND ADMINISTRATION SERVICES

 Alliance Fund Services, Inc. ("AFS"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Partnership, provides registrar, dividend disbursing and transfer agency related
services for each U.S. Fund and provides servicing for each U.S. 
shareholder accounts. As of December 31, 1997 AFS employed 276 people. AFS
operates out of offices in Secaucus, New Jersey. Under each servicing agreement
AFS receives a monthly fee. Each servicing agreement must be approved annually
by the relevant U.S. board of directors or trustees, including a majority
of the disinterested directors or trustees, and may be terminated by either
party without penalty upon 60 days' notice.
 
 Most U.S. Funds and closed-end funds for which the Partnership acts as
investment manager utilize Partnership XX to perform legal, clerical and
accounting services not required to be provided by the Partnership. Payments by
a U.S. Fund for these services must be specifically approved in advance by the
U.S. board of directors or trustees. Currently, the Partnership and AFS
are accruing revenues for providing clerical and accounting services to the U.S.
Funds and these closed-end funds at the rate of approximately $8.6 million per
year.
 
 ACM Fund Services S.A. ("ACMFS"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Partnership, is the registrar and transfer agent of substantially all of the
Offshore Funds. As of December 31, 1997 ACMFS employed 10 people. ACMFS
operates out of offices in Luxembourg and receives a monthly fee for its
registrar and transfer agency services. Each agreement between ACMFS and an
Offshore Fund may be terminated by either party upon 60 days' notice.
 
 The Partnership expects to continue to devote substantial resources to
shareholder servicing because of its importance in competing for assets invested
in mutual funds and cash management services.

YEAR 2000

 Many computer systems and applications process transactions using two digit
date fields for the year of a transaction, rather than the full four digits. If
these systems are not modified and replaced, transactions occurring after 1999
would be processed as year "00", which could result in processing inaccuracies
and inoperability by or at the Year 2000. The Partnership utilizes a number of
significant computer systems and applications that it either has developed
internally or licensed from third-party suppliers. In addition, the Partnership
is dependent on third-party suppliers for certain systems applications and for
the electronic receipt of information critical to its business. Should the
 significant computer systems and applications or the systems of
its important third-party suppliers be unable to process date sensitive
information 


 14



accurately after 1999, the ability of the Partnership to conduct its operations
and to provide its separate account clients and the Alliance Mutual Funds with
the required services could be significantly impaired.

 The Partnership began to address the Year 2000 issue several years ago in
connection with the replacement or upgrade of certain computer systems and
applications. During 1997, the Partnership began a formal Year 2000 initiative,
which established a structured and coordinated process to deal with the Year
2000 issue. The Partnership is currently assessing the impact of the Year 2000
issue on its domestic and international computer systems and applications. At
this time, management of the Partnership expects that the required modifications
for the majority of its significant systems and applications will be completed
and tested by the end of 1998. Full integration testing of these systems and
testing of interfaces with third-party suppliers will continue through 1999. 
The current estimate of the total cost of this initiative ranges from $35
million to $40 million. These costs consist principally of modification costs
which will be expensed as incurred. At this time, management of the Partnership
believes that the costs associated with resolving this issue will not have a
material adverse effect on the results of operations, liquidity or
capital resources.

COMPETITION

 The financial services industry is highly competitive and new entrants are
continually attracted to it. No one or small number of competitors is dominant
in the industry. The Partnership is subject to substantial competition in all
aspects of its business. Pension fund, institutional and corporate assets are
managed by investment management firms, broker-dealers, banks and insurance
companies. Many of these financial institutions have substantially greater
resources than the Partnership. The Partnership competes with other providers of
institutional investment products and services primarily on the basis of the
range of investment products offered, the investment performance of such
products and the services provided to clients. Based on an annual survey
conducted by PENSIONS & INVESTMENTS, as of December 31, 1996 the Partnership was
ranked 9th out of 250 managers based on tax-exempt assets under management, 5th
out of the 25 largest managers of international index assets, 7th out of the 25
largest managers of domestic equity index funds and 14th out of the 25 largest
domestic bond index managers.

 Many of the firms competing with the Partnership for institutional clients
also offer mutual fund shares and cash management services to individual
investors. Competitiveness in this area is chiefly a function of the range of
mutual funds and cash management services offered, investment performance,
quality in servicing customer accounts and the capacity to provide financial
incentives to financial intermediaries through distribution assistance and
administrative services payments funded by "Rule 12b-1" distribution plans and
the investment own resources.

CUSTODY AND BROKERAGE

 Neither the Partnership nor its subsidiaries maintains custody of client
funds or securities, which is maintained by client-designated banks, trust
companies, brokerage firms or other custodians. Custody of the assets of
Alliance Mutual Funds, The Hudson River Trust and money market funds is
maintained by custodian banks and central securities depositories.

 The Partnership generally has the discretion to select the brokers or
dealers to be utilized to execute transactions for client accounts.
Broker-dealers affiliated with ECI and Equitable effect transactions for client
accounts only if the use of the broker-dealers has been specifically authorized
or directed by the client.

REGULATION

 The Partnership, Albion Alliance, ACFG and Alliance are investment advisers
registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Each U.S. Fund is
registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under the
Investment Company Act and the shares of most U.S. Funds are qualified for sale
in all states in the United States and the District of Columbia, except for U.S.
Funds offered only to residents of a particular state. AFS is registered with
the SEC as a transfer agent and AFD is registered with the SEC as a
broker-dealer. AFD is subject to minimum net capital requirements ($3.8 million
at December 31, 1997) imposed by the SEC on registered broker-dealers and had
aggregate regulatory net capital of $10.6 million at December 31, 1997.


 15



 The relationships of Equitable and its insurance company subsidiaries with
the Partnership are subject to applicable provisions of the New York Insurance
Law and regulations. Certain of the investment advisory agreements and
ancillary administrative service agreements between Equitable and its insurance
company subsidiaries and the Partnership are subject to disapproval by the New
York Superintendent of Insurance within a prescribed notice period. Under the
New York Insurance Law and regulations, the terms of these agreements are to be
fair and equitable, charges or fees for services performed are to be reasonable,
and certain other standards must be met. Fees must be determined either with
reference to fees charged to other clients for similar services or, in certain
cases, which include the ancillary service agreements, based on cost
reimbursement.
 
 The assets under management and revenues derived from the
general accounts of Equitable and its insurance company subsidiaries are
directly affected by the investment policies for the general accounts. Among
the numerous factors influencing general account investment policies are
regulatory factors, such as laws and regulations that require
diversification of the investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments
in certain investment categories such as below investment grade fixed
maturities, equity real estate and equity interests, (ii) statutory investment
valuation reserves, and (iii) risk-based capital guidelines for life insurance
companies approved by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. 
These policies have recently resulted in the shifting of general account assets
managed by the Partnership into categories with lower management fees.
 
 All aspects of the Partnership are subject to various federal
and state laws and regulations and to the laws in the foreign countries in which
the subsidiaries conduct business. These laws and regulations are
primarily intended to benefit clients and Alliance Mutual Fund shareholders and
generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the
power to limit or restrict the carrying on for failure to comply
with such laws and regulations. In such event, the possible sanctions which may
be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on
engaging for specific periods, the revocation of the registration as
an investment adviser, censures and fines.

EMPLOYEES

 As of December 31, 1997 the Partnership and its subsidiaries employed 1,670
employees, including 197 investment professionals, of whom 97 are portfolio
managers, 89 are research analysts and 11 are order placement specialists. The
average period of employment of these professionals with the Partnership is
approximately 9 years and their average investment experience is approximately
15 years. The Partnership considers its employee relations to be good.

SERVICE MARKS

 The Partnership has registered a number of service marks with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, including an "A" design logo and the combination of
such logo and the words "Alliance" and "Alliance Capital". Each of these
service marks was registered in 1986.
 

YEAR 1999, CIK 1070042, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General Overview

 The Company is the largest for profit provider of doctoral level
programs. The mission is to provide academically-oriented,
practitioner-focused education in fields with numerous employment
opportunities and strong student demand. In addition to doctoral and masters
degrees in psychology, education and business, the Company also awards
 degrees , associate degrees in allied health professions
and diplomas in information technology. At August 31, 1999, approximately 63%
of the students were enrolled in doctoral programs. In 1998, the
Company graduated approximately 360 clinical psychology doctoral students out
of approximately 4,000 psychology doctoral degrees conferred nationwide. The
Company operates 17 campuses in nine states and the Province of Ontario,
Canada, and had a total of approximately 4,500 students, representing 48
states and 30 foreign countries, enrolled as of August 31, 1999.

 The Company was founded in 1975, when the Chairman, Michael C.
Markovitz, Ph.D., recognized a demand for a non-research oriented professional
school that would educate and prepare students for careers as clinical
psychology practitioners. To address this demand, the Company started the
Illinois School of Professional Psychology in Chicago, Illinois in 1976 and,
in its first year of operations, received several thousand inquiries for
admission to a class of 70 students for the PsyD degree. The continuing demand
for high quality, practitioner-focused psychology postgraduate education led
the Company to expand the reXX American Schools of Professional Psychology
to ten campuses located across the United States. In response to a broader
demand for quality career education, the Company has expanded beyond the
psychology curriculum with the acquisitions of the University of Sarasota,
a degree-granting institution focusing primarily on postgraduate business and
education (March 1992); (ii) the Medical Institute of Minnesota, a degree-
granting institution focusing on a variety of allied health professions
(February 1998); and (iii) PrimeTech Institute, an institution granting
diplomas in computer programming and other aspects of information technology
and in paralegal studies (November 1998). In addition, the Company became the
largest provider of postgraduate psychology license examination preparation
courses and materials in the United States by its acquisition of Ventura in
August 1997. Through Ventura, the Company also provides professional licensure
examination materials and workshops for social work; marriage, family and
child counseling; marriage and family therapy; and counseling certification
examinations nationwide.

 The Company operates the following schools:

 . American Schools of Professional Psychology (" ASPP") grants doctoral and
 degrees in clinical psychology and related disciplines at ten
 campuses located in Illinois , Minnesota, Georgia, Virginia, Hawaii,
 Arizona, Florida, California and Washington. ASPP is accredited by the
 North Central Association of Colleges and Schools ("NCA"), and five of
 its campuses are accredited by the American Psychological Association
 ("APA").

 . University of Sarasota ("U of S") grants doctoral, and
 degrees at three campuses located in Sarasota, Florida, Tampa,
 Florida and Orange, California. U of S is accredited by the Southern
 Association of Colleges and Schools ("SACS").

 . Medical Institute of Minnesota ("MIM") grants associate degrees at one
 campus in Minneapolis, Minnesota. MIM is institutionally accredited by
 Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools ("ABHES"), and
 additionally holds individual programmatic accreditation appropriate to
 each degree program offered.

 . PrimeTech Institute (PrimeTech") awards diplomas at three campuses in
 Ontario, Canada.

 In addition, Ventura publishes materials and holds workshops in select
cities across the United States to prepare individuals to take various
national and state administered oral and written health care licensure
examinations in psychology and other mental health disciplines.


 As of September 1, 1999 the Company entered into a long term agreement to
manage the John Marshall Law School of Atlanta, Georgia. The agreement
includes an option to purchase John Marshall. The right can be exercised at
the discretion. Throughout its 67-year history, John Marshall Law
School in Atlanta has operated with the approval of the Georgia Supreme Court
but without American Bar Association accreditation. In 1987, however, the
court mandated that John Marshall must earn ABA accreditation prior to 2003 or
close.
 Because of the demonstrated expertise in working with accrediting
bodies, the Company was chosen to manage John Marshall on a contract basis.
The management agreement also includes a 10-year purchase option on the
school.

 The following table sets forth certain additional information regarding the
 schools and their various campuses:



 Year Date
 School and Campus Locations Opened Acquired Accreditation
 
American Schools of
 Professional Psychology NCA
Illinois School of
 Professional
 Psychology/ChicagoChicago, IL 1976 -- APA
Illinois School of
 Professional
 Psychology/MeadowsRolling Meadows, IL 1979 March 1994 APA
Minnesota School of
 Professional Psychology.. Minneapolis, MN 1987 -- APA
Georgia School of
 Professional Psychology.. Atlanta, GA 1990 -- APA
American School of
 Professional
 Psychology/VirginiaArlington, VA 1994 --
American School of
 Professional
 Psychology/HawaiiHonolulu, HI 1979 March 1994 APA
Arizona School of
 Professional Psychology.. Phoenix, AZ 1997 --
Florida School of
 Professional Psychology
 Tampa, FL 1995 Sept. 1998
American School of
 Professional
 Psychology/San Francisco
 Bay AreaPoint Richmond, CA 1998 Sept. 1998
Washington School of
 Professional Psychology.. Seattle, WA 1997 Sept. 1999

University of Sarasota SACS
University of
 Sarasota/HonoreSarasota, FL 1969 March 1992
University of
 Sarasota/TampaTampa, FL 1997 --
University of
 Sarasota/CaliforniaOrange, CA 1999 --

Medical Institute of
 MinnesotaMinneapolis, MN 1961 Feb. 1998 ABHES

PrimeTech Institute
PrimeTech Institute/North
 YorkNorth York, Ontario 1989 Nov. 1998
PrimeTech Institute/City
 CampusToronto, Ontario 1995 Nov. 1998
PrimeTech
 Institute/Scarborough.... Scarborough, Ontario 1999 --

 Historically operated as a unit of the University of Sarasota.

Industry Overview

 According to the National Center for Education Statistics (the "NCES") of
the United States Department of Education ("DOE"), education is the second
largest sector of the U.S. economy, accounting for approximately 8% of gross
domestic product in 1997, or over $600 billion. The schools are part
of the postsecondary education market, which accounts for approximately one-
third of the total sector. Of the approximately 6,000 postsecondary schools
that are eligible to participate in the student financial aid programs ("Title
IV Programs") administered by DOE under the Higher Education Act of 1965, as
amended ("HEA"), approximately 500 are proprietary degree-granting
institutions such as the schools.

 The NCES estimates that by the year 2001 the number of students enrolled in
higher education institutions will increase by more than 1.5 million, to over
16 million students. The Company believes that a significant portion of this
growth in the postsecondary education market will result from an increase in
the number of new high school graduates, an increase in the number of college
graduates attending postgraduate institutions and the increased enrollment by
working adults in postsecondary and postgraduate institutions. According to
the NCES,

 2


the number of new high school graduates per year is expected to increase by
approximately 24%, from 2.5 million graduates in 1994 to 3.1 million graduates
in 2004. Over the same period, the number of college graduates attending
postgraduate institutions is expected to increase by approximately 100,000
students. The NCES estimates that, over the next several years, initial
enrollments in postsecondary education institutions by working adults will
increase more rapidly than initial enrollments of recent high school
graduates.

 The postsecondary education industry generally is expected to benefit from
the increased recognition of the value of a postsecondary education.
According to the NCES, the percentage of recent high school graduates who
continued their education after graduation increased from approximately 53% in
1983 to approximately 65% in 1996. The percentage of college graduates
continuing to postgraduate institutions remained relatively constant, at 11%,
over the same period. The Company believes that students pursue higher
education for a variety of reasons, including the increased prestige
associated with academic credentials, career change and development,
intellectual curiosity and the income premium associated with higher
education. According to Census Bureau data, in 1995 the income premiums over
comparable workers with high school diplomas for associate, ,
 and doctoral degree holders were 25%, 55%, 91% and 127%,
respectively.

Business Strategy

 The mission is to provide academically-oriented, practitioner-
focused education in fields with numerous employment opportunities and strong
student demand. The key elements of the Company strategy are as
follows:

 Focusing on Advanced Degrees. Approximately 62% of the students
are enrolled in doctoral programs, with an additional 17% pursuing 
degrees and the remainder pursuing or associate degrees or
diplomas. Management believes that the emphasis on advanced degree
programs provides greater predictability of tuition revenue and reduces
recruitment cost per enrolled student, as compared to lower level degree
programs, due to a number of factors, including the longer term of most
advanced degree programs, the higher student retention rates experienced in
more advanced degree programs and the narrower target markets for advanced
degree programs. Consistent with this philosophy, the Company plans to expand
some of its associate degree programs, such as those offered by MIM, to
 degree programs. By offering more advanced degree programs, the
Company can also take advantage of the tendency of many graduates of ,
 and associate degree programs to continue their education at the
same institution if appropriate advanced degree programs are offered.

 Focusing on Curricula with Practical Professional Applications. The Company
was founded to respond to a demand for postgraduate education which focuses on
practical professional applications instead of research. The 
academic programs are designed to prepare students to work in their chosen
professions immediately upon graduation. Psychology graduate students, for
example, gain significant practical professional experience through a required
internship program. Similarly, MIM requires all of its students to participate
in a field-based internship. The programs for professional educators
also focus on practical benefits by offering the academic credentials and
skills in discrete sub-specialties required for promotion and increased
compensation. This practitioner-focused approach provides the additional
benefits of attracting highly motivated students and increasing student
retention and graduate employment. The professional test preparation
business provides it with another means of participating in the practical
education needed for graduates in many fields to become practitioners.

 Refining and Adapting Educational Programs. Each of the schools
strives to meet the changing needs of its students and changes in the
employment markets by regularly refining and adapting its existing educational
programs. To do so, the Company has implemented its Program for Institutional
Effectiveness Review. PIER is designed to provide periodic feedback from
XX management, faculty and students with a view toward consistently
improving the quality of each academic programs. Through PIER, the

 3


Company solicits the views of each of these participants in the educational
process on quality improvement issues such as curriculum innovations which can
meet existing or expected employment and student demands and class scheduling
and other program administrative improvements which can improve the students'
educational experience.

 Emphasizing School Management Autonomy and Accountability. The Company
operates with a decentralized management structure in which local campus
management is empowered to make most of the day-to-day operating decisions at
each campus and is primarily responsible for the profitability and growth of
that campus. Appropriate performance-based incentive compensation arrangements
have been implemented by the Company to reinforce the accountability of local
campus management under this structure. At the same time, the Company provides
each of its schools with certain services that it believes can be performed
most efficiently and cost-effectively by a centralized office. Such services
include marketing, accounting, information systems, financial aid processing
and administration of regulatory compliance. The Company believes this
combination of decentralized management and certain centralized services
significantly increases its operational efficiency.

Growth Strategy

 The objective is to achieve growth in revenue and profits while
consistently maintaining the integrity and quality of its academic programs.
The key elements of the growth strategy are as follows:

 Expanding Program Offerings. The Company regularly engages in the
development of new, and the expansion of existing, curricular offerings at the
doctoral, , , associate and diploma levels. Of the 18
degree-granting programs currently offered by the Company, five have been
introduced since 1995. For example, in 1995 the Company introduced its
doctorate administration ("DBA") program to provide students with
advanced level business training and in 1997 the Company initiated its
 of science in health services administration ("MSHSA") program to
provide students with training and problem solving skills from the areas of
both business and social sciences. In 1999 the Company began offering courses
in its new sports psychology program. The Company believes that there are
significant opportunities to develop additional new programs, such as its new
program in pastoral counseling at U of S and its proposed programs in dental
hygienics and radiation therapy at MIM. Once new programs have proven
successful at one school, the Company seeks to expand them to its other
schools which offer related programs. For example, ASPP currently offers a
 of arts ("MA") degree in counseling at six campuses and is in the
process of making this program available at the remaining ASPP campuses.

 Adding New Campuses. The Company seeks to expand its presence into new
geographic locations. Nine of the 17 campuses were developed by the
Company internally. The Company regularly evaluates new locations for
developing additional campuses and believes that significant opportunities
exist for doing so. For example, of the 21 metropolitan areas in the United
States with a population in excess of two million persons, nine do not have a
graduate school of professional psychology that awards the PsyD degree.

 Emphasizing Student Recruitment and Retention. The Company believes that it
can increase total enrollment at its campuses through the implementation of an
integrated marketing program that utilizes direct response marketing and
direct sales to college and high school counselors. The Company has hired a
marketing professional at each of its campuses to focus both the marketing
campaign and overall recruitment effort of each campus within its targeted
market. The Company also believes it can increase its profitability through
improvements in student retention rates, as the cost of efforts to keep
current students in school are less than the expense of attracting new
students.

 Expanding into Related Educational Services. The Company believes that
significant opportunities exist in providing educational services that are
related to its current program offerings. Through Ventura, the Company has
become a leading provider of test preparation programs for psychology
licensure examinations. These

 4


programs bring the Company in contact with a significant number of current and
future psychology practitioners, which the Company believes can offer an
opportunity to market additional educational programs in the future. For
example, the Company believes that non-degree continuing education programs
will increasingly be mandated by state licensing authorities; this represents
an opportunity for the Company to provide services not only for the graduates
of its schools, but also for the broader universe of licensed health care
providers to which it gains access through its Ventura test preparation
programs.

 Acquisitions. Based on recent experience and internal research, the Company
believes that, in both the for-profit and not-for-profit postgraduate
education industry, most schools are small, stand-alone entities without the
benefits of centralized professional management, scale economies in purchasing
and advertising or the financial strength of a well-capitalized parent
company. The Company intends to capitalize on this fragmentation by acquiring
and consolidating attractive schools and educational programs. The Company has
acquired eight of its 17 campuses, four of which were for-profit and four of
which were originally not-for-profit, and the Ventura test preparation
business. The Company believes there are significant opportunities to acquire
schools which can serve as platforms for program and campus expansion. Prime
acquisition candidates are those that have the potential to be quickly
developed into profitable, accredited degree-granting schools offering
programs consistent with the mission.

Programs of Study

 ASPP. ASPP grants postgraduate level degrees in a variety of specialties
within the field of clinical psychology. The Company offers a doctorate in
clinical psychology, of arts degrees in clinical psychology and
professional counseling and a of science degree in health services
administration. ASPP also offers a postdoctoral program in clinical
psychopharmacology. Approximately 68% of students are enrolled in the
PsyD program in various specialties and, of the students enrolled in the
clinical MA program, historically more than 50% continue in the PsyD program.

 The Company was among the first academic programs in the United States to
offer the practitioner-focused PsyD degree, as compared to the research-
oriented PhD degree. The PsyD is a four year program consisting of one year of
classroom training, two years divided between classroom training and fieldwork
practicum and a fourth year consisting of a paid internship. The program
focuses on practical issues in clinical psychology as compared to abstract
research topics. For example, fourth year students prepare a case study as
their final project, rather than a doctoral dissertation. Clinical MA students
complete a two year program, all of which can be carried over into the PsyD
program.

 In connection with its emphasis on a practitioner-focused education, ASPP
offers a variety of minors to be pursued in connection with the PsyD program.
For example, the Chicago campus offers minors in the areas of Family
Psychology, Ethnic Racial Psychology, Psychoanalytic Psychology, Sexual Abuse
Psychology, Health Psychology and Psychology and Religion. The Minnesota
campus also offers the Health Psychology and Psychology and Religion
subspecialties, as well as a minor in Child and Family Psychology.

 The of arts program in professional counseling is a two year
program combining classroom training and fieldwork. Typically offered in the
evening and on weekends, this program aims to provide the skills and training
needed by individuals to practice as licensed professional counselors in a
wide variety of governmental, community and private settings.

 The MSHSA degree is designed to provide students with training and problem
solving skills from the areas of both business and social sciences. Students
learn about business principles and their application to health care as well
as clinical training methods and behavior theories applicable to the health
care field. The program focuses on innovative solutions to health care
delivery problems by drawing on both business and interpersonal behavior
theory.

 5


 academic programs are highly respected in the field. Since its
inception in 1976, ASPP has graduated over 2,700 students. While its focus is
on practice rather than research, its graduates also include PsyDs who now
serve as tenured faculty members at Harvard University and Northwestern
University.

 U of S. U of S grants postgraduate and level degrees in
education, business and behavioral science. In education, U of S offers a
doctorate in education ("EdD"), a of arts in education ("MEd") and an
educational specialist degree ("EdS"), each with various majors or
concentrations, such as curriculum and instruction, human services
administration, counseling psychology and educational leadership. ,
U of S offers a doctorate administration ("DBA"), a administration ("MBA") and a of science 
administration ("BSBA"), each with various majors or concentrations, such as
information systems, international business, management and marketing. In
behavioral science, U of S offers a of arts in counseling.

 The EdD, MEd and EdS programs are offered to professional educators from
across the U.S. The programs consist of an innovative combination of distance
learning and personal interaction, allowing students to complete a significant
percentage of the preparatory work for each course at home in advance of an
intensive in-person instructional period, typically scheduled during breaks in
the academic year. The Company believes that an important aspect of the
learning experience is the interaction with faculty and other
students. The EdD is a three year program, and the MEd and EdS are two year
programs.

 The DBA, MBA and BSBA degrees are offered both part-time and full-time and
consist of classes in disciplines such as statistics, economics, accounting
and finance. The DBA is a three year program; the MBA is a two year program,
which may count towards two of the three years required for the DBA; and the
BSBA is a two year degree completion program.

 MIM. MIM offers associate degrees ("AA") in a variety of allied health care
fields. MIM offers programs leading to certification as a veterinary
technician, diagnostic medical sonographer, histotechnician, medical
assistant, medical laboratory technician or radiologic technologist.
Currently, approximately 60% of the students are enrolled in the veterinary
technician program. The programs typically consist of 12-15 months of full-
time classroom training and two to six additional months of internship.

 PrimeTech. PrimeTech offers diploma programs in network engineering,
internet engineering, software programming and paralegal studies. The programs
typically consist of 12-18 months of full-time course work, which can be taken
on a part-time basis and which is completed on-site.

 Ventura. Ventura publishes materials and holds workshops in select cities
across the United States to prepare individuals to take various national and
state administered oral and written health care licensure examinations in the
fields of psychology, social work, counseling, marriage and family therapy,
and marriage, family and child counseling. The programs typically last three
to four days and are conducted at various locations throughout the United
States.

Student Body

 Recruitment

 The Company seeks to attract students with both the motivation and ability
to complete the programs offered by its schools. To generate interest, the
Company engages in a broad range of activities to inform potential students
and their parents about its schools and programs of study.

 The general reputation of the schools and referrals from current
students, alumni and employers are the largest sources of new students. The
Company believes that over 60% of students for the 1998 fiscal year
were enrolled through referrals from current and former students as well as
employees and others who have worked with graduates. The Company also
employs marketing tools such as its web sites and

 6


creates publications and other promotional materials for the 
schools, participates in school fairs and uses other traditional recruitment
techniques common to undergraduate and postgraduate institutions. The goal of
the recruitment efforts is to increase awareness of the 
schools among potential applicants in a cost-effective and dignified manner.

 ASPP and U of S operate in a different marketing environment than MIM and
PrimeTech. ASPP andU of S seek to appeal to academically-oriented students,
students who might otherwise elect to attend a state-sponsored or private
university and who expect to see recruitment efforts and materials consistent
with such universities, such as course catalogs and participation in student
fairs. MIM and PrimeTech seek to appeal to students who are strictly seeking
career-enhancing education and students who may not have college or university
experience. These students typically respond to more traditional commercial
marketing efforts. Ventura markets its programs directly to graduates of
postgraduate psychology schools that have registered to take postgraduate
licensure exams.

 The following table sets forth certain statistics regarding the student
body at each of the schools for the 1998-99 academic year:



 Number of Average
 School Students Age % Postgraduate
 
 American Schools of Professional
 Psychology 2,043 33 100%
 University of Sarasota 1,649 41 98%
 Medical Institute of Minnesota 567 27 0%
 PrimeTech Institute 283 30 0%


 Admission

 The admissions objective is to achieve controlled student
enrollment growth while consistently maintaining the integrity and quality of
its academic programs. At each of the schools, student admissions
are overseen by a committee, comprised principally of members of the faculty,
that reviews each application and makes admissions decisions. Differing
programs within the Company operate with differing degrees of selectivity.
Some of the programs, particularly its postgraduate psychology
programs, receive many more applications for admission than can be
accommodated. Admissions criteria for such programs include a combination of
prior academic record, performance on an admissions essay and work experience.
The Company believes that other of its programs are beneficial to anyone who
possesses the necessary qualifications and chooses to enroll. Such programs
tend to be less selective; however, the Company does screen students both for
their commitment to completing a particular program of study and their
aptitude for the academic subject matter of their chosen program. Upon passing
the various screens of the admissions process, successful applicants are
notified of acceptance into the program of their choice. All of the 
schools use a rolling admissions format.

 Retention

 The Company recognizes that the ability to retain students until graduation
is an important indicator of the success of its schools and of its students.
As with other postsecondary institutions, students at the schools
may fail to finish their programs for a variety of personal, financial or
academic reasons. While ASPP doctoral students have seven years to complete
their studies, students generally complete the program in approximately five
and one-half years. Over 62% of the members of 1992 entering doctoral
class graduated in 1997, and historically approximately 70% of students
ultimately complete their degree.U of S, MIM and PrimeTech have historically
had completion rates similar to those of ASPP, although MIM and PrimeTech have
substantially shorter programs. The Company believes and 
completion rates are higher than those of many other associate degree and
diploma programs. To reduce the risk of student withdrawals, the Company
counsels students early in the application process to gauge their commitment
to completing their chosen course of study.

 7


 Student retention is considered an entire responsibility, from
admissions to faculty and administration to career counseling services. To
minimize student withdrawals, faculty and staff members at each of the
 campuses strive to establish personal relationships with students.
Each campus devotes staff resources to advising students regarding academic
and financial matters, part-time employment and other matters that may affect
their success. However, while there may be many contributors, each campus has
one administrative employee specifically responsible for monitoring and
coordinating the student retention efforts. In addition, the XX
management regularly tracks retention rates at each campus and provides
feedback and support to local campus administrators.

Tuition and Fees

 The schools invoice students for tuition and other institutional
charges by the term of instruction. Each refund policies meet the
requirements of the DOE and such state and accrediting agencies.
Generally, if a student ceases attendance during the first 60% of his or her
first term, the applicable school will refund institutional charges based on
the number of weeks remaining in that term. After a student has attended 60%
of that term, the school generally is allowed to retain 100% of the
institutional charges. After a first term, the school refunds
institutional charges based on the number of weeks attended in the term in
which the student withdraws. Generally, after six weeks of a term, the school
will retain 100% of the institutional charges for that academic period.

 The Company has historically implemented tuition increases each year at or
above the rate of inflation. Average tuition increases at the 
schools for fiscal 1997, 1998 and 1999 were 5.1%, 5.1% and 5.2%, respectively.

 The following table sets forth the average total tuition to complete a
degree at each of the schools, based on tuition rates for the 1998-
99 academic year:



 Average Total Length of
 School Tuition program
 
 American Schools of Professional Psychology
 PsyD $52,440 4 years
 MA (Clinical) 24,908 2 years
 MA (Counseling) 19,008 2 years
 MSHSA 22,500 2 years

 University of Sarasota
 DBA, EdD $21,180 3 years
 Med 15,650 2 years
 Eds 10,590 2 years
 MBA 9,640 2 years
 MA 16,600 2 years
 BSBA 14,250 2 years

 Medical Institute of Minnesota
 Veterinary Technician, Radiologic Technologist,
 Medical Lab Technician, Diagnostic Medical
 Sonographer $18,900 18 months
 Histotechnician, Medical Assistant 16,250 18 months

 PrimeTech Institute
 Software Programming Engineer $14,500 18 months
 Software Programmer 11,600 13 months
 PC/LAN 7,000 12 months
 Internet Service/Support Engineer 6,150 12 months
 Legal Secretary 6,000 12 months
 LAN Professional, Paralegal 5,500 12 months
 Microcomput Application
 Administration 4,500 12 months
 Desktop Publishing Specialist 4,000 12 months
 Accounting Assistant 3,700 12 months


 8


Graduate Employment

 The Company believes that employment of its graduates in occupations
related to their fields of study is critical to the ability of its schools to
continue to recruit students successfully. Based on information received from
graduating students and employers, the Company believes that students
graduating from the schools enjoy considerable professional success.
 graduating class of 1997, for example, reported a 95% employment rate
in their area of study within six months after graduation. U of education
students are primarily working professional educators, and thus by definition,
have a significant graduate employment rate. The success of their educational
experience is measured by continued and accelerated success in their field.
MIM and PrimeTech each provide academic programs specifically tailored to a
 career goals. and graduating classes of 1997
reported employment rates in their relevant fields of study within six months
of graduation of 85% and 81%, respectively.

Faculty

 The Company seeks to attract and retain faculty with outstanding
credentials in their respective fields for each of its schools. Each of the
 schools attempts to employ faculty members who are dedicated to the
teaching profession and to provide such faculty members with a stimulating and
professional academic environment and competitive compensation package. The
Company emphasizes a core staff of full-time faculty members to maintain
continuity and consistency across its academic programs, augmented by part-
time adjunct faculty with significant industry experience. The 
schools each employ dedicated faculty with significant experience and
credentials in their respective fields to provide the personal interaction
that is critical to the academic experience. The Company also encourages its
full-time faculty members to engage in meaningful outside professional
activities to retain current practical experience. The Company has implemented
its PIER program providing periodic feedback to faculty from XX
management, faculty peers and students with a view toward consistently
improving the quality of each academic programs.

 The following table sets forth certain information regarding the faculty at
each of the schools as of August 31, 1999:



 Full-
 Time Adjunct
 School Faculty Faculty Highest Degree of Full-Time Faculty
 
 American Schools of
 Professional Psychology 85 166 100% Doctoral (PhD or PsyD)
 University of Sarasota 32 11 95% Doctoral, 5% 
 Medical Institute of Minnesota. 23 26 9% Doctoral, 13% , 43% ,
 9% Associate, 26% Certificate
 PrimeTech Institute 15 2 12% Doctoral, 38% , 50% 

 Represents faculty members teaching at least one class during the 1998-99
 academic year.

Governance of the Schools

 Each ASPP campus is managed locally by a Dean who reports to the Provost of
ASPP (John E. Sites). U of S is headed by a Provost (Dale Bower) who reports
to the Board of U of S. Both PrimeTech and MIM are headed by Unit Presidents
(Roy Rintoul and Scott Tjaden, respectively) each of whom reports to his
respective board of directors. Each of these Provosts and Unit Presidents also
consult with the President of the Company (Harold J. O'Donnell). Scott Ables,
General Manager of Ventura, reports to the President of the Company.

 U of S and MIM each has an independent Board of separate from
the Board but elected by the Company as sole shareholder. These
local boards of directors independently make and approve policies and budgets.


 9


Competition

 The postsecondary education market in the United States is highly
fragmented and competitive, with no private or public institution enjoying a
significant market share. The Company competes for students with postgraduate,
four year and two year degree-granting institutions, which include non-profit
public and private colleges, universities and proprietary institutions. An
attractive employment market also reduces the number of students seeking
postgraduate degrees, thereby increasing competition for potential
postgraduate students. Management believes that competition among educational
institutions is based on the quality of educational programs, location,
perceived reputation of the institution, cost of the programs and employment
opportunities for graduates. Certain public and private colleges and
universities may offer programs similar to those of the Company at a lower
tuition cost due in part to governmental subsidies, government and foundation
grants, tax deductible contributions or other financial resources not
available to proprietary institutions. Other proprietary institutions also
offer programs that compete with those of the Company. Moreover, there is an
increase in competition in the specific educational markets served by the
Company. For example, excluding PsyD programs offered by the Company, in the
1992 academic year there were 36 PsyD programs existing in the United States,
while in the 1997 academic year there were 54 PsyD programs in the United
States. Certain of the competitors in both the public and private
sector have greater financial and other resources than the Company.

Employees

 As of August 31, 1999, the Company employed 357 persons. Of this number, 36
were employed in the corporate headquarters, 155 were full-time or
permanent part-time faculty members and 166 were working as administrative or
support staff deployed at the various Company locations. None of the 
employees are unionized. The Company believes its relations with its employees
are generally good.

 FINANCIAL AID AND REGULATION

Accreditation

 Accreditation is a non-governmental process through which an institution
voluntarily submits itself to qualitative review by an organization of peer
institutions. The three types of accrediting agencies are national
accrediting agencies, which accredit institutions on the basis of the overall
nature of the institutions without regard to their locations, (ii) regional
accrediting agencies, which accredit institutions located within their
geographic areas, and (iii) programmatic accrediting agencies, which accredit
specific educational programs offered by an institution. Accrediting agencies
primarily examine the academic quality of the instructional programs of an
institution, and a grant of accreditation is generally viewed as certification
that an programs meet generally accepted academic standards.
Accrediting agencies also review the administrative and financial operations
of the institutions they accredit to ensure that each institution has the
resources to perform its educational mission.

 Pursuant to provisions of the HEA, the DOE relies in part on accrediting
agencies to determine whether institutions' educational programs qualify them
to participate in the Title IV Programs. The HEA specifies certain standards
that all recognized accrediting agencies must adopt in connection with their
review of postsecondary institutions. Accrediting agencies that meet the DOE
standards are recognized as reliable arbiters of educational quality. The HEA
requires each recognized accrediting agency to submit to a periodic review of
its procedures and practices by the DOE as a condition of its continued
recognition.

 All of the U.S. campuses are accredited by an accrediting agency
recognized by the DOE. These accrediting agencies are the North Central
Association of Colleges and Schools ("NCA"), the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools ("SACS"), the Accrediting Bureau of Health Education
Schools/Programs

 10


("ABHES") and the American Psychological Association ("APA"). NCA, SACS and
ABHES are institutional accrediting bodies which accredit the entire
institution. The APA is a programmatic accrediting body which does not
accredit the entire institution, but only specific programs offered by the
institution. ASPP is institutionally accredited by NCA to offer both doctoral
and degrees at its campuses in Illinois, Minnesota, Georgia,
Virginia, Hawaii, Arizona, California and Florida. Chicago,
Minneapolis, Atlanta, Hawaii and Rolling Meadows campuses also have
programmatic accreditation by the APA. U of S is institutionally accredited by
SACS to award doctoral, and degrees , doctoral
and degrees in education and doctoral and degrees in
psychology. MIM is approved by the State of Minnesota to award associate
degrees in a variety of allied health fields, is institutionally accredited by
ABHES, a nationally recognized accreditor of allied health care institutions,
and additionally holds individual programmatic accreditation appropriate to
each degree program offered. The Company is seeking APA accreditation for
programs at its Florida and Virginia campuses. Although accreditation is not
currently required, failure to obtain such accreditation could adversely
affect state authorization of these campuses in future periods or the ability
of graduates of these campuses to obtain state licenses to practice. PrimeTech
is approved as a private vocational school in the Province of Ontario, Canada,
to award diplomas upon successful completion of the following main programs:
network engineering, internet engineering, software programming and paralegal
studies.

 Each of the institutional accrediting agencies that accredits the 
campuses has standards pertaining to areas such as curricula, institutional
objectives, long-range planning, faculty, administration, admissions, record-
keeping, library resources, facilities, finances and student refunds, among
others. Certain institutional substantive changes, including changes of
ownership and the addition of new facilities and programs may require review
and approval from accrediting agencies. Institutions which apply for
accreditation typically receive a visiting team which reviews the
 compliance with these standards. Based on the report and
the response, the accrediting agency grants or denies
accreditation. The accrediting agencies which accredit the 
campuses assess annual fees and require that institutions pay for the costs
associated with team visits and other substantive reviews of the institution
resulting from changes to the institution or its curricula. The Company
believes that it incurred costs of approximately $46,000 in fiscal 1999
directly related to accreditation.

 The HEA requires accrediting agencies recognized by the DOE to review many
aspects of an operations to ensure that the education or
training offered by the institution is of sufficient quality to achieve, for
the duration of the accreditation period, the stated objective for which the
education or training is offered. Under the HEA, a recognized accrediting
agency must perform regular inspections and reviews of institutions of higher
education. An accredited institution must meet or exceed an accrediting
 standards throughout its period of accreditation. An accrediting
agency may place an institution on probation or similar warning status or
direct the institution to show cause why its accreditation should not be
revoked if the accrediting agency believes an institution may be out of
compliance with accrediting standards. It may also place an institution on
"reporting" status in order to monitor one or more specified areas of the
 performance. An institution placed on reporting status is
required to report periodically to its accrediting agency on that
 performance in the specified areas. While on reporting status,
an institution may be required to seek the permission of its accrediting
agency to open and commence instruction at new locations. None of the
 schools are on probation, show cause or reporting status.

Student Financial Assistance

 Students attending the schools finance their education through a
combination of individual resources (including earnings from full or part-time
employment), government-sponsored financial aid and other sources, including
family contributions and scholarships provided by the Company. The Company
estimates that over 51% of the students at its U.S. schools receive some
government-sponsored (federal or state) financial aid. For fiscal 1999,
approximately 53% of the net tuition revenue (on a cash basis) was
derived from some form of such government-sponsored financial aid received by
the students enrolled in its schools. In addition, approximately 70% of the
students attending PrimeTech receive Canadian government-sponsored financial
aid.

 11


 To provide students access to financial assistance available through the
Title IV Programs, an institution, including its additional locations, must be
 authorized to offer its programs of instruction by the relevant agencies
of the state in which it and its additional campuses, if any, are located,
(ii) accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the DOE and (iii)
certified as eligible by the DOE. In addition, the institution must ensure
that Title IV Program funds are properly accounted for and disbursed to
eligible students.

 Under the HEA and its implementing regulations, each of the 
campuses that participates in the Title IV Programs must comply with certain
standards on an institutional basis, as more specifically identified below.
For purposes of these standards, the regulations define an institution as a
main campus and its additional locations, if any. Under this definition, each
of the U.S. schools is a separate institution.

Nature of Federal Support for Postsecondary Education in the United States

 While many states support public colleges and universities primarily
through direct state subsidies, the federal government provides a substantial
part of its support for postsecondary education in the form of grants and
loans to students who can use this support at any institution that has been
certified as eligible by the DOE. The Title IV Programs have provided aid to
students for more than 30 years, and, since the mid-, the scope and size
of such programs have steadily increased. Since 1972, Congress has expanded
the scope of the HEA to provide for the needs of the changing national student
population by, among other things, providing that students at proprietary
institutions, such as the institutions, are eligible for assistance
under the Title IV Programs, (ii) establishing a program for loans to parents
of eligible students, (iii) opening the Title IV Programs to part-time
students and (iv) increasing maximum loan limits and in some cases eliminating
the requirement that students demonstrate financial need to obtain federally
guaranteed student loans. Most recently, the Federal Direct Loan program was
enacted, enabling students to obtain loans from the federal government rather
than from commercial lenders.

 On October 1, 1998, legislation was enacted which reauthorized the student
financial assistance programs of the HEA. The 1998 Amendments continue many of
the current requirements for student and institutional participation in the
Title IV Programs. The 1998 Amendments also change or modify some
requirements. These changes and modifications include increasing the revenues
that an institution may derive from Title IV funds from 85% to 90% and
revising the requirements pertaining to the manner in which institutions must
calculate refunds to students. The 1998 Amendments also prohibit institutions
that are ineligible for participation in Title IV loan programs due to student
default rates in excess of applicable thresholds from participating in the
Pell Grant program. Other changes expand participating institutions' ability
to appeal loss of eligibility owing to such default rates. The 1998 Amendments
permit an institution to avoid the interruption of eligibility for the Title
IV Programs upon a change of ownership which results in a change of control by
submitting a materially complete application for recertification of
eligibility within 10 business days of such a change of ownership. Regulations
concerning a calculation of refunds to students are scheduled to take
effect in October 2000, and regulations to implement the remaining portions of
the 1998 Amendments are scheduled to become effective on July 1, 2000. The
Company does not believe that the 1998 Amendments will adversely or materially
affect its business operations. None of the institutions derives
more than 80% of its revenue from Title IV funds and no institution has
student loan default rates in excess of current thresholds. The Company also
believes that its current refund policy satisfies the new refund requirements.

 Students at the institutions receive grants, loans and work
opportunities to fund their education under several of the Title IV Programs,
of which the two largest are the FFEL program and the Federal Pell Grant
("Pell") program. Some of the institutions participate in the
Perkins program and the Federal Work-Study ("FWS") program. In addition, the
 institutions are eligible to participate in the Federal Supplemental
Educational Opportunity Grant ("FSEOG") program.

 Most aid under the Title IV Programs is awarded on the basis of financial
need, generally defined under the HEA as the difference between the cost of
attending an educational program and the amount a student can reasonably
contribute to that cost. All recipients of Title IV Program funds must
maintain a satisfactory grade point average and progress in a timely manner
toward completion of their program of study.

 12


 Pell. Pell grants are the primary component of the Title IV Programs under
which the DOE makes grants to students who demonstrate financial need. Every
eligible student is entitled to receive a Pell grant; there is no
institutional allocation or limit, although there is a limit for each eligible
student, depending on need. For the 1998 federal fiscal year, the maximum
individual Pell grant was $3,000; for the 1999 federal fiscal year, the
maximum was $3,125. For the 2000, federal fiscal year, the maximum Pell grant
increased to $3,300.

 FSEOG. FSEOG awards are designed to supplement Pell grants for the neediest
students. FSEOG grants generally range in amount from $100 to $4,000 per year;
however, the availability of FSEOG awards is limited by the amount of funds
allocated to an institution under a formula that takes into account the size
of the institution, its costs and the income levels of its students. The
Company is required to make a 25% matching contribution for all FSEOG program
funds disbursed. Resources for this institutional contribution may include
institutional grants, scholarships and other eligible funds (i.e., funds from
foundations and other charitable organizations) and, in certain states,
portions of state scholarships and grants. At this time, only MIM participates
in the FSEOG program.

 FFEL. The FFEL program consists of two types of loans, Stafford loans,
which are made available to students, and PLUS loans, which are made available
to parents of students classified as dependents. Under the Stafford loan
program, a student may borrow up to $2,625 for the first academic year, $3,500
for the second academic year and, in some educational programs, $5,500 for
each of the third and fourth academic years. Graduate and professional
students may borrow up to $8,500 per academic year. Students with financial
need may qualify for interest subsidies while in school and during grace
periods. Students who are classified as independent can increase their
borrowing limits and receive additional unsubsidized Stafford loans. Such
students can obtain up to an additional $4,000 for each of the first and
second academic years and, depending upon the educational program, an
additional $5,000 for each of the third and fourth academic years. Graduate
and professional students may borrow up to an additional $10,000 per academic
year. The obligation to begin repaying Stafford loans does not commence until
six months after a student ceases to be enrolled on at least a half-time
basis. Amounts received by students in the institutions under the
Stafford program in fiscal 1999 equaled approximately 45% of the net
tuition revenue (on a cash basis). Under the PLUS loan program, the parents of
a dependent student may obtain a loan in an amount not to exceed the
difference between the total cost of that education (including
allowable expenses) and other aid to which that student is entitled. At this
time, none of the institutions participates in the PLUS program.

 The schools and their students use a wide variety of lenders and
guaranty agencies and have not experienced difficulties in identifying lenders
and guaranty agencies willing to make federal student loans. The HEA requires
the establishment of lenders of last resort in every state to ensure that
students at any institution that cannot identify such lenders will have access
to the FFEL program loans.

 Perkins. Eligible undergraduate students may borrow up to $3,000 under the
Perkins loan program during each academic year, with an aggregate maximum of
$15,000, at a 5% interest rate and with repayment delayed until nine months
after the borrower ceases to be enrolled on at least a half-time basis.
Perkins loans are made available to those students who demonstrate the
greatest financial need. Perkins loans are made from a revolving account, 75%
of which was initially capitalized by the DOE. Subsequent federal capital
contributions, with an institutional match in the same proportion, may be
received if an institution meets certain requirements. Each institution
collects payments on Perkins loans from its former students and loans those
funds to currently enrolled students. Collection and disbursement of Perkins
loans is the responsibility of each participating institution. During the
1998-99 award year, the Company collected approximately $36,600 from its
former students in repayment of Perkins loans. In the 1998-99 award year, the
 required matching contribution was approximately $7,600. The Perkins
loans disbursed to students in the institutions in the 1998-99 award
year represented less than 1% of the net U.S. tuition revenue.

 FWS. Under the FWS program, federal funds are made available to pay up to
75% of the cost of part-time employment of eligible students, based on their
financial need, to perform work for the institution or for off-campus public
or non-profit organizations. During the 1998-99 award year, the 
institutions and other

 13


organizations provided matching contributions totaling approximately $80,600.
At least 5% of an FWS allocation must be used to fund student
employment in community service positions. FWS earnings are not used for
tuition and fees. However, in the 1998-99 award year, the federal share of FWS
earnings represented less than 1% of the net U.S. tuition revenue.

Federal Oversight of the Title IV Programs

 The substantial amount of federal funds disbursed through the Title IV
Programs coupled with the large numbers of students and institutions
participating in those programs have led to an increased level of DOE
regulatory oversight of institutions. If an cohort default rate
(the percentage of its students or former students who default on their
student loans within approximately 18 months of being required to commence
repayment) exceeds 25 percent for three consecutive federal fiscal years, the
institution, with limited exceptions, becomes ineligible to participate in the
Title IV Programs. Each institution which participates in the Title IV
Programs must annually submit to the DOE an audit by an independent accounting
firm of that compliance with Title IV Program requirements, as
well as audited financial statements. The DOE also conducts compliance
reviews, which include on-site evaluations of several hundred institutions
each year, and directs student loan guaranty agencies to conduct additional
reviews relating to the FFEL programs. In addition, the Office of the
Inspector General of the DOE conducts audits and investigations of
institutions in certain circumstances. Under the HEA, accrediting agencies and
state licensing agencies also have responsibilities for overseeing
institutions' compliance with Title IV Program requirements. As a result, each
participating institution, including each of the institutions, is
subject to frequent and detailed oversight and must comply with a complex
framework of laws and regulations or risk being required to repay funds, to
pay civil penalties, or be declared ineligible to participate in the Title IV
Programs. In addition, because the DOE periodically revises its regulations
(e.g., in November 1997, the DOE published new regulations with respect to
financial responsibility standards which took effect July 1, 1998) and changes
its interpretation of existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance
that the DOE will agree with the understanding of each Title IV
Program requirement.

 Largely as a result of this increased oversight, the DOE has reported that
1,500 institutions have either ceased to be eligible for or have voluntarily
relinquished their participation in some or all of the Title IV Programs since
October 1, 1992. This has reduced competition among institutions with respect
to certain markets and educational programs.

 Cohort Default Rates. A significant component of the increased regulatory
oversight has been the imposition of limitations on participation in the Title
IV Programs by institutions whose former students defaulted on the repayment
of federally guaranteed or funded student loans at an "excessive" rate. Since
the DOE began to impose sanctions on institutions with cohort default rates
above certain levels, the DOE has reported that over 1,000 institutions have
lost their eligibility to participate in some or all of the Title IV Programs.
However, many institutions, including all of the institutions, have
responded by implementing aggressive student loan default management programs
aimed at reducing the likelihood of students failing to repay their loans in a
timely manner. An cohort default rates under the FFEL programs
are calculated on an annual basis as the rate at which student borrowers
scheduled to begin repayment on their loans in one federal fiscal year default
on those loans by the end of the next federal fiscal year. Any institution
whose cohort default rate equals or exceeds 25% for any one of the three most
recent federal fiscal years may be found by the DOE to lack administrative
capability and, on that basis, placed on provisional certification status for
up to three years. Provisional certification status does not limit an
 access to Title IV Program funds but does subject that
institution to closer review by the DOE and possible summary adverse action if
that institution commits violations of Title IV Program requirements. Any
institution whose cohort default rates equal or exceed 25% for three
consecutive years will no longer be eligible to participate in the FFEL
programs for the remainder of the federal fiscal year in which the DOE
determines that such institution has lost its eligibility and for the two
subsequent federal fiscal years. In addition, an institution whose cohort
default rate for any federal fiscal year exceeds 40% may have its eligibility
to participate in all of the Title IV Programs limited, suspended or
terminated. Since the calculation of cohort default rates involves the
collection of data from many non-governmental agencies (i.e., lenders, private

 14


guarantors or services), as well as the DOE, the HEA provides a formal process
for the review and appeal of the accuracy of cohort default rates before the
DOE takes any action against an institution based on such rates. In addition
to the foregoing, if an cohort default rate for loans under the
Perkins program exceeds 15% for any federal award year (i.e., July 1 through
June 30), that institution may be placed on provisional certification status
for up to three years. Furthermore, as a result of the 1998 Amendments to the
HEA, institutions that are ineligible to participate in the Title IV loan
program due to student loan default rates will also become ineligible to
participate in the Pell Grant Program.

 None of the institutions has had a published FFEL or Perkins
cohort default rate of 15% or greater for any of the past three federal fiscal
years. The overall average cohort default rates for fiscal 1993,
1994 and 1995 were 0.4%, 2.9% and 7.9%, respectively. The average cohort
default rates for proprietary institutions nationally for federal fiscal years
1993, 1994 and 1995 were 23.9%, 21.1% and 19.9%, respectively. The 
overall average cohort default rate for fiscal 1996 was 4.6%.

 Financial Responsibility Standards. All institutions participating in the
Title IV Programs must satisfy a series of specific standards of financial
responsibility. Institutions are evaluated for compliance with those
requirements in several circumstances, including as part of the 
recertification process, on an annual basis as each institution submits its
audited financial statements to the DOE, and in connection with a change of
ownership resulting in a change of control of an institution. Under standards
in effect prior to July 1, 1998, (and still in effect with respect to
financial review upon a change in ownership), each audited
balance sheet must demonstrate an acid test ratio (defined as the ratio of
cash, cash equivalents and current accounts receivable to current liabilities)
of at least 1:1 at the end of each fiscal year. Another standard requires that
each institution have a positive tangible net worth at the end of each fiscal
year. A third standard prohibits any institution from having a cumulative net
operating loss during its two most recent fiscal years that results in a
decline of more than 10% of that tangible net worth as measured
at the beginning of that two-year period. The DOE measures an 
compliance with the financial responsibility standards on the basis of the
audited financial statements of the institution itself, but it may request the
financial statements of the parent company or other related
entities in performing its financial responsibility review.

 An institution that is determined by the DOE not to meet any one of the
standards of financial responsibility is nonetheless entitled to participate
in the Title IV Programs if it can demonstrate to the DOE that it is
financially responsible on an alternative basis. An institution may do so by
posting surety either in an amount equal to 50% (or greater, as the DOE may
require) of total Title IV Program funds received by students enrolled at such
institution during the prior year or in an amount equal to 10% (or greater, as
the DOE may require) of such prior funds if the institution also agrees
to provisional certification and to transfer to the reimbursement or cash
monitoring system of payment for its Title IV Program funds. The DOE has
interpreted this surety condition to require the posting of an irrevocable
letter of credit in favor of the DOE. Alternatively, an institution may
demonstrate, with the support of a statement from a certified public
accountant and other information specified in the regulations, that it was
previously in compliance with the numeric standards and that its continued
operation is not jeopardized by its financial condition. Under a separate
standard of financial responsibility, if an institution has made late Title IV
Program refunds to students in its prior two years, the institution is
required to post a letter of credit in favor of the DOE in an amount equal to
25% of total Title IV Program refunds paid by the institution in its prior
fiscal year.

 In November 1997, the DOE issued new regulations, which took effect July 1,
1998 and revised the standards of financial responsibility as applied to
an annual audited financial statements. These new standards
replace the numeric tests described above with three ratios: an equity ratio,
a primary reserve ratio and a net income ratio, which are weighted and added
together to produce a composite score for the institution. Institutions such
as the Company have the choice of meeting the new standards or the old
standards for fiscal years that began on or after July 1, 1997, but before
June 30, 1998.

 15


 Under the new standards, an institution need only satisfy a composite score
standard. The ratio methodology of these standards takes into account an
 total financial resources and determines a combined score of the
measures of those resources along a common scale (from negative 1.0 to
positive 3.0). It allows a relative strength in one measure to mitigate a
relative weakness in another measure.

 If an institution achieves a composite score of at least 1.5, it is
financially responsible without further oversight. If an institution achieves
a composite score from 1.0 to 1.4, it is in the "zone" and is subject to
additional monitoring, but may continue to participate as a financially
responsible institution, for up to three years. Additional monitoring may
require the school to notify the DOE, within 10 days of certain changes,
such as an adverse accrediting action; (ii) file its financial statements
earlier than the six month requirement following the close of the fiscal year;
and (iii) subject the school to a cash monitoring payment method. If an
institution has a composite score below 1.0, it fails to meet the financial
responsibility standards unless it qualifies under an alternative standard
(i.e., a letter of credit equal to 50% of the Title IV Program funds
expended from the prior fiscal year or (ii) a letter of credit equal to at
least 10% of the Title IV Program funds expended from the prior fiscal year
plus provisional certification status and either or the reimbursement payment
of Title IV funds or heightened cash monitoring).

 The Company has applied these new regulations to its financial statements
as of August 31, 1999, the end of the most recently completed fiscal
year, and has determined that the Company and each of its institutions
satisfied the new standards as of that date.

 Restrictions on Acquiring or Opening Additional Schools and Adding
Educational Programs. An institution which undergoes a change of ownership
resulting in a change in control must be reviewed and recertified for
participation in the Title IV Programs under its new ownership. Pending
recertification, the DOE suspends Title IV Program funding to that
 students, except for certain Title IV Program funds that were
committed under the prior owner, although such suspension can be avoided if
the institution submits a materially complete application for approval within
ten business days of closing on the transaction. If an institution is
recertified following a change of ownership, it may be on a provisional basis.
During the time an institution is provisionally certified, it may be subject
to closer review by the DOE and to summary adverse action for violations of
Title IV Program requirements, but provisional certification does not
otherwise limit an access to Title IV Program funds.

 In addition, the HEA generally requires that proprietary institutions be
fully operational for two years before applying to participate in the Title IV
Programs. However, under the HEA and applicable regulations, an institution
that is certified to participate in the Title IV Programs may establish an
additional location and apply to participate in the Title IV Programs at that
location without reference to the two-year requirement, if such additional
location satisfies all other applicable eligibility requirements, including
that the additional location be approved by the accrediting
agency and by the appropriate government licensing agency in the state where
the additional location is located. The expansion plans are based,
in large part, on its ability to acquire schools that can be recertified and
to open additional locations as part of its existing institutions. The Company
believes that its ability to open additional locations as part of existing
institutions is the most feasible means of expansion, because its existing
institutions are currently certified as eligible to participate in Title IV
Programs and students enrolled at the new additional locations will have more
ready access to Title IV Program funds.

 Generally, if an institution eligible to participate in the Title IV
Programs adds an educational program after it has been designated as an
eligible institution, the institution must apply to the DOE to have the
additional program designated as eligible. However, an institution is not
obligated to obtain DOE approval of an additional program that leads to a
professional, graduate, or associate degree or which prepares
students for gainful employment in the same or related recognized occupation
as an educational program that has previously been designated as an eligible
program at that institution and meets certain minimum length requirements.
Furthermore, short-term educational programs, which generally consist of those
programs that provide at least 300 but less than 600 clock hours of
instruction, are eligible only for FFEL funding and only if they have been

 16


offered for a year and the institution can demonstrate, based on an
attestation by its independent auditor, that 70% of all students who enroll in
such programs complete them within a prescribed time and 70% of those students
who graduate from such programs obtain employment in the recognized occupation
for which they were trained within a prescribed time. In the event that an
institution erroneously determines that an educational program is eligible for
purposes of the Title IV Programs without the express approval, the
institution would likely be liable for repayment of Title IV Program funds
provided to students in that educational program. The Company does not believe
that the regulations will create significant obstacles to its plans to
add new programs because any new programs offered by its campuses will lead to
professional, graduate, or associate degrees or prepare students
for gainful employment in the same or related recognized occupation as
education programs which were previously offered by the campuses.

 Certain of the state authorizing agencies, the Ontario Student Assistance
Plan ("OSAP"), and accrediting agencies with jurisdiction over the 
campuses also have requirements that may, in certain instances, limit the
ability of the Company to open a new campus, acquire an existing campus,
establish an additional location of an existing institution or begin offering
a new educational program. The Company does not believe that such standards
will have a material adverse effect on the Company or its expansion plans,
because the standards for approval of new programs or expanding institutions
are generally no more stringent than the standards applied by the states, OSAP
and accrediting agencies in originally granting accreditation and licensure to
the campuses. Compliance with state and OSAP standards generally requires
notification of the proposed change and, in some states, approval by the
accrediting agency. Based on its current practice of meeting or exceeding both
state and accrediting agency standards, the Company believes that it will be
able to obtain any accreditation or state approvals to initiate new programs
or expand its campuses. If the Company were unable to meet those standards,
its ability to add programs or expand its campuses would be materially
adversely affected.

 The "85/15 Rule." Under a provision of the HEA commonly referred to as the
"85/15 Rule," a proprietary institution, such as each of the U.S.
institutions, would cease being eligible to participate in the Title IV
Programs if, on a cash accounting basis, more than 85% of its net revenues for
the prior fiscal year was derived from the Title IV Programs. As discussed
above, Congress recently amended the 85/15 Rule to a 90/10 Rule in the 1998
Amendments to the HEA. Any institution that violates this rule immediately
becomes ineligible to participate in the Title IV Programs and is unable to
apply to regain its eligibility until the following fiscal year. The Company
has calculated that, since this requirement took effect in 1995, none of the
 U.S. institutions derived more than 80% of its net revenue (on a
cash basis) from the Title IV Programs for any award year, and that for fiscal
1999 the range for the U.S. institutions was from approximately 43%
to approximately 69%. For 1998, the independent auditors of the Company or the
institution, if applicable, examined assertion that each of the
 U.S. institutions complied with these requirements and opined that
such assertion was fairly stated in all material respects. The Company
regularly monitors compliance with this requirement in order to minimize the
risk that any of its U.S. institutions would derive more than the maximum
allowed percentage of its revenue from the Title IV Programs for any fiscal
year. If an institution appears likely to approach the maximum percentage
threshold, the Company would evaluate the appropriateness of making changes in
student funding and financing to ensure compliance with the Rule.

 Restrictions on Payment of Bonuses, Commissions or Other Incentives. The
HEA prohibits an institution from providing any commission, bonus or other
incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing
enrollments or financial aid to any person or entity engaged in any student
recruitment, admission or financial aid awarding activity for programs
eligible for Title IV Program funds. The Company believes that its current
compensation plans are in compliance with HEA standards.

State Authorization in the United States

 Each of the campuses is authorized to offer educational programs
and grant degrees or diplomas by the state in which such campus is located.
The level of regulatory oversight varies substantially from state to state. In
some states, the campuses are subject to licensure by the state education
agency and also by a separate higher education agency. State laws establish
standards for instruction, qualifications of faculty, location and

 17


nature of facilities, financial policies and responsibility and other
operational matters. State laws and regulations may limit the ability of the
Company to obtain authorization to operate in certain states, to award degrees
or diplomas or offer new degree programs. Certain states prescribe standards
of financial responsibility that are different from those prescribed by the
DOE. The Company believes that each of its campuses is in substantial
compliance with state authorizing and licensure laws. Program approval for the
 doctor of clinical psychology program in the State of Virginia
recently expired, and an application to extend the approval is pending.

 The Company derived 23.2% and 20.4% of its fiscal 1999 revenues from its
operations in Illinois and Minnesota, respectively. The Illinois Board of
Higher Education, the entity which authorizes the Illinois ASPP campuses to
offer degrees, and the Minnesota Higher Education Services Office, the entity
which authorizes the MIM and Minnesota ASPP campus to offer degrees, regulate
all non-public degree granting institutions within the corresponding states.
The Boards require ASPP and MIM to demonstrate compliance with regulations in
areas such as admissions, curriculum, facilities, equipment, instructional
materials, qualifications of school XX, fiscal resources, tuition and
refund policy, record-keeping and recruitment. The Company believes its
campuses are fully authorized to offer degrees in the states of Illinois and
Minnesota. No other state accounted for 20% or more of the revenue
in fiscal 1999.

Canadian Regulation

 The Ontario Ministry of Education and Training ("OMET") provides financial
assistance to eligible students through OSAP, which includes two main
components, the CSL program and the Ontario Student Loans Program ("OSLP")
program. To maintain its right to administer OSAP, an institution, such as the
PrimeTech campuses in Toronto, must, among other things, be registered and in
good standing under the PVSA and abide by the rules, regulations and
administrative manuals of the CSL, OSLP and other OSAP-related programs. In
order to attain initial eligibility, an institution must establish, among
other things, that it has been in good standing under the PVSA for at least 12
months, that it has offered an eligible program for at least 12 months and
that it has graduated at least one class in an eligible program that satisfies
specific requirements with respect to class size and graduation rate. In
addition, the institution must offer full-time programs at the postsecondary
level, award a diploma or certificate upon successful completion of the
program, have minimum admission requirements for entering students, require
students to participate fully in their studies, monitor students' progress and
maintain academic records, and advise OMET before taking any action that could
result in its failing to meet requirements. When applying for initial
eligibility an institution must also file with OMET a request for OSAP
designation with a description of the procedures to be implemented to
administer the OSAP financial aid office. During the first two years of
initial eligibility, the institution must have its administration of OSAP
independently audited, and full eligibility will not be granted unless these
audits establish that the institution has properly administered OSAP. The
institution can only administer CSL funds, and cannot administer OSLP funds,
until it has gained full eligibility. Once an institution has gained OSAP
eligibility, the institution must advise OMET before it takes any material
action that may result in its failure or inability to meet any rules,
regulations or requirements related to OSAP. Both of the Canadian
campuses are fully eligible to administer CSL and OSLP Funds.

 In order for an OSAP-eligible institution to establish a new branch of an
existing eligible institution, it must obtain an OSAP-designation from OMET,
either as a separate institution if the branch administers OSAP without the
involvement of the main campus, or as part of the same institution, if OSAP is
administered through the main campus of the institution. The Company does not
believe that requirements will create significant obstacles to its
plans to acquire additional institutions or open new branches in Ontario.

 Institutions participating in OSAP, such as the PrimeTech campuses in
Toronto, cannot submit applications for loans to students enrolled in
educational programs that have not been designated as OSAP-eligible by OMET.
To be eligible, among other things, a program must be registered with the
Private Vocational Schools Unit, must be of a certain minimum length and must
lead to a diploma or certificate. Each of the PrimeTech educational programs
has been designated OSAP eligible by OMET and the Company does not anticipate
that these program approval requirements will create significant problems with
respect to its plans to add new educational programs.

 18


 An institution cannot automatically acquire OSAP-designation through
acquisition of other OSAP-eligible institutions. When there is a change of
ownership, including a change in controlling interest, in a non-incorporated
OSAP-eligible institution, OMET will require evidence of the 
continued capacity to properly administer the program before extending OSAP
designation to the new owner. Under OSAP regulations, a change or
reorganization which significantly affects the administration of
OSAP funds such that the prior record of administering such
funds is no longer relevant results in the OMET considering the institution to
be a new institution. Given that OMET periodically revises its regulations and
other requirements and changes its interpretations of existing laws and
regulations, there can be no assurance that OMET will agree with the 
understanding of each OMET requirement.

 PrimeTech is required to audit its OSAP administration annually, and OMET
is authorized to conduct its own audits of the administration of the OSAP
programs by any OSAP-eligible institution. The Company has complied with these
requirements on a timely basis. Based on its most recent annual compliance
audits, PrimeTech has been found to be in substantial compliance with the
requirements of OSAP, and the Company believes that it continues to be in
substantial compliance with these requirements. OMET has the authority to take
any measures it deems necessary to protect the integrity of the administration
of OSAP. If OMET deems a failure to comply to be minor, OMET will advise the
institution of the deficiency and provide the institution with the opportunity
to remedy the asserted deficiency. If OMET deems the failure to comply to be
serious in nature, OMET has the authority to: condition the 
continued OSAP designation upon the meeting specific
requirements during a specific time frame; (ii) refuse to extend the
 OSAP eligibility to the OSLP program; (iii) suspend the
 OSAP designation; or (iv) revoke the OSAP
designation. In addition, when OMET determines that any non-compliance in an
 OSAP administration is serious, OMET has the authority to
contract with an independent auditor, at the expense of the institution, to
conduct a full audit in order to quantify the deficiencies and to require
repayment of all loan amounts. In addition, OMET may impose a penalty up to
the amount of the damages assessed in the independent audit.

 As noted above, PrimeTech is subject to the PVSA. The Company may not
operate a private vocational school in the province of Ontario unless such
school is registered under the PVSA. Upon payment of the prescribed fee and
satisfaction of the conditions prescribed by the regulations under the PVSA
and by the Private Vocational Schools Unit of the OMET, an applicant or
registrant such as PrimeTech is entitled to registration or renewal of
registration to conduct or operate a private vocational school unless: it
cannot reasonably be expected to be financially responsible in the conduct of
the private vocational school; the past conduct of the officers or
directors provides reasonable grounds for belief that the operations of the
campus will not be carried on in accordance with relevant law and with
integrity and honesty; it can reasonably be expected that the course or
courses of study or the method of training offered by the private vocational
school will not provide the skill and knowledge requisite for employment in
the vocation or vocations for which the applicant or registrant is offering
instruction; or the applicant is carrying on activities that are, or will
be, if the applicant is registered, in contravention of the PVSA or the
regulations under the PVSA. An applicant for registration to conduct or
operate a private vocational school is required to submit with the application
a bond in an amount determined in accordance with the regulations under the
PVSA. PrimeTech is currently registered under the PVSA at both of its
buildings, and the Company does not believe that there will be any impediment
to renewal of such registrations on an annual basis.

 The PVSA provides that a "registration" is not transferable. However, the
Private Vocational Schools Unit of OMET takes the position that a purchase of
shares of a private vocational school does not invalidate the 
registration under the PVSA. The Company does not believe that the Offering
will invalidate the registration of PrimeTech.

 If a corporation is convicted of violating the PVSA or the regulations
under the PVSA, the maximum penalty that may be imposed on the corporation is
$25,000.

 19


 The legislative, regulatory and other requirements relating to student
financial assistance programs in Ontario are subject to change by applicable
governments due to political and budgetary pressures, and any such change may
affect the eligibility for student financial assistance of the students
attending PrimeTech, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect the
Company, results of operations or financial condition.

YEAR 1998, CIK 746425, ______________________________

ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION 
 
GENERAL

 The discussion of the Company contained in this Annual Report 
on Form 10-K includes certain forward-looking statements. For a discussion 
of factors which may affect the outcome projected in such statements, see 
"Material Customers," "Competition," "Registration and Licensing," 
"Regulation," "Legal Proceedings," " Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

 JMC Group, Inc. (the "Company") is a Delaware corporation which was 
founded in 1983. Its executive offices are located at 9710 Scranton Road, 
Suite 100, San Diego, California 92121 and its telephone number is (619) 
450-0055.

 The Company has operated its business in one industry segment - annuity, 
insurance and mutual fund sales and sales support services through financial 
institutions and the related servicing of products previously sold. This 
business has historically been carried out through the 
subsidiaries, James Mitchell & Co. and its subsidiaries ("JMC") and JMC 
Investment Services, Inc. ("JMCI"). JMC and JMCI are structured marketing 
organizations that sell tax-advantaged annuities, insurance products and 
mutual funds as investment vehicles to customers of financial institutions 
through relationships with banks and savings and loan associations and 
thrifts. The products consist primarily of fixed and variable 
annuities underwritten by independent life insurance companies and mutual 
fund shares. The Company has provided support services ("Integrated Support 
Services" or "ISS") for First Tennessee internal program for which the 
Company earned monthly service fees from January 1996 until December 31, 
1997, when the relationship with FTB was terminated. See "Material Customers".

 Although the termination or modification of contracts with financial 
institutions usually ends new sales activities, JMC continues, in most cases, 
to provide services to the customers of the institution and earns fees for 
these services based on the accumulated asset value of the accounts being 
serviced. First Tennessee Bank selected the option of acquiring right 
to future asset-based fee revenues at the termination of its contract. See 
" Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations -Results of Operations - 1997 compared to 1996."

 During 1997, the average monthly accumulated value of assets being 
serviced for such inactive clients was over $432 million generating annual 
1997 asset-based fee revenues of $1,502,000.

 On December 22, 1997 the Company announced that it was withdrawing from 
its traditional retail sales business and terminating its relationship with 
each of its remaining bank clients. Citing a severely restricted market for 
the services, the Board determined it was in the best interest of 
stockholders to preserve capital and assets and to look for a business 
alternative. As a result of these decisions, the Company commenced a 
restructuring aimed at enhancing the servicing of the asset fee block to 
maximize return and reducing costs in all areas of operations. All sales and 
marketing efforts and costs are being evaluated and total XX reduced 
to a maintenance level. See " Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations - 1997 Compared to 1996 - 
Restructuring."

PRINCIPAL MARKETS AND METHODS OF DISTRIBUTION

 Through the end of 1997, the principal market for services has 
been banks, savings and loan associations and thrifts. An independent 
marketing organization such as JMC provided these institutions with the 
ability to make products available to their customers and receive fee income.

 Historically, the primary distribution method employed by the Company 
and its financial institution clients for the sale of annuities and insurance 
products has been a fully managed alternative investment program. Mutual 
fund products were generally sold directly by employees to financial 
institution customers. structured retail marketing organization 
employs the retail sales force and thereby controls the point of sale.


 2



PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

 The principal investment products offered by JMC to customers of its 
financial institution clients have been fixed and variable annuities and 
mutual funds, including equity funds, fixed income funds and tax exempt 
funds. Annuities are primarily used as tax-deferred retirement savings 
vehicles. There is a penalty if funds are withdrawn before age 59 1/2 or 
within a specified period of time, usually 5 to 8 years. Unlike individual 
retirement accounts there is no maximum investment cap either annually or in 
total and contributions are not tax-deductible. Immediate annuities provide 
guaranteed income for a specified number of years or for an 
lifetime. 

 During 1997, the mix of annuities and insurance products sold by JMC was 
as follows: 41% fixed annuities and 59% variable and other annuities. The 
corresponding product mix percentages of annuities sold by the Company in 
1996 and 1995 were 41% fixed/59% variable and other and 65% fixed/35% 
variable and other, respectively. Sales of annuities represented 56%, 55% and 
65%, respectively, of total sales in each of 1997, 1996 and 1995. The gross 
revenue rate received by JMC on the sale of annuity products is significantly 
greater than the gross revenue rate received on mutual fund shares. In 
addition, the gross revenue rate received on fixed annuity products is 
greater than the gross revenue rate received on variable and other annuities. 
See " Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
of Operations -Results of Operations - 1997 Compared to 1996" and 
" Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations - Results of Operations - 1996 Compared to 1995" for further 
explanation of the impact of product mix on revenues and gross margin.

 The subsidiaries have negotiated relationships with numerous 
national insurance providers and, during 1997, such subsidiaries sold the 
products of New York Life Insurance and Annuity Company, Keyport Life 
Insurance Company, Aetna Life Insurance and Annuity Company, Liberty Life 
Assurance Company, The Life Insurance Company of Virginia, Allianz Life 
Insurance Company of North America and Transamerica Life Insurance and 
Annuity Company, among others. All of these companies have A or higher 
ratings from A.M. Best.
 
 Prior to the termination of sales activities, the 
subsidiaries' arrangements with each of its annuity and insurance provider 
companies were very similar. JMC acted as an agent and sold the 
products to customers of financial institution clients. In addition, the 
 subsidiaries handled certain administrative responsibilities and 
provided ongoing customer service. Both of these functions are often provided 
directly by the annuity and insurance provider in other agency relationships. 
Historically, the subsidiaries earned commissions from the sale of 
the products. In addition to the commission on the initial sale, 
they also earned a monthly asset-based fee on most products, based on the 
accumulated value of each contract for as long as the contract is in force 
and annuity payments have not started. Contracts with annuity and insurance 
providers are generally terminable by either party on thirty days' notice 
with regard to all of their provisions, except that the provider company 
continues to be obligated to pay the Company its monthly asset-based fee so 
long as there remains in force any accumulated value of contracts sold prior 
to termination of the contract. During 1997, the Company received 
approximately $1.3 million in annuity commissions and $1.5 million in 
asset-based fee revenues related to annuity contracts. Commissions are net of 
actual and projected chargebacks for surrenders. See " Discussion 
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of 
Operations - 1997 Compared to 1996" related to events impacting asset-based 
fee income during 1997 such as the net gain on the sale of rights to certain 
future asset-based fee revenue.

 Management believes that the subsidiaries have maintained 
strong relations with their current annuity and insurance provider companies. 
Many of the products were developed jointly by the Company with the annuity 
and insurance provider companies specifically for use in the 
programs. In connection with the sale of annuity and insurance products, JMC 
does not assume any of the underwriting risks or obligations of the insurance 
company itself. The Company conducts due diligence and has an established 
policy of selling only the products of insurance companies which it believes 
are highly rated and financially sound.

 Although sales of mutual funds have been suspended as well, the 
 subsidiaries have agreements to sell mutual fund shares for a large 
number of mutual fund families, including Putnam, Federated, Fidelity, 
Oppenheimer, Franklin-Templeton and American Capital. JMC receives 
commissions for the sale of mutual fund shares and, in most instances, 
receives ongoing fees for providing continuing customer service. The Company 
will continue to service its mutual fund customers. Until December 31, 1997, 
JMC Financial Corporation acted as a clearing agent for First Tennessee 


 3



Brokerage, Inc. In connection with the sale of mutual fund shares, 
representatives act strictly as agents and neither company underwrites 
securities.

MATERIAL CUSTOMERS

 During 1997, Independence Savings Bank, First Tennessee Bank and 
residual asset fees from Wells Fargo Bank (which includes First Interstate 
Bank, from annuities sold to customers of former client Sacramento Savings) 
accounted for approximately 32%, 26% and 12%, respectively, of the 
commission revenues. The relationship with First Tennessee Bank 
was terminated on December 31, 1997.

COMPETITION 

 From inception through the suspension of active sales efforts at the end 
of 1997, the Company operated in a very competitive environment and competed 
for client bank relationships with other third-party marketing firms. Some 
of its competitors are subsidiaries of major insurance and mutual fund 
companies that operate marketing organizations similarly targeting sales of 
annuities, insurance products and mutual fund shares to customers of banks, 
savings and loan associations and thrifts. Many of the organizations 
affiliated with underwriters and distributors have the ability to offer very 
attractive pricing to potential client financial institutions. The largest 
and most recognized organizations competing in this general field are Great 
Northern Annuity (GNA), Essex, Liberty Securities, Marketing One and INVEST. 
Some financial institutions also elect to manage annuity, insurance and 
mutual fund sales programs internally, rather than use a third-party 
marketing firm. Generally it is the larger financial institutions who 
establish such internal programs. In addition, customers of financial 
institutions who might have purchased products from the Company can obtain 
similar products from licensed insurance agents, stockbrokers and financial 
institutions not affiliated with JMC. The principal method of competition is 
price, product and service.

REGISTRATION AND LICENSING 

 JMC and certain of its subsidiaries and JMCI are required to be licensed 
to do business in certain states where they transact business. In addition, 
JMC Financial Corporation and JMCI are registered broker-dealers with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), are members of the National 
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. ("NASD") and are licensed or 
registered as securities broker-dealers in certain states where they transact 
business. Finally, certain of subsidiaries and JMCI must be licensed 
or registered as an insurance agency or agent in order to engage 
in certain states. Each of JMC and its subsidiaries and JMCI are duly 
qualified to transact business, and are duly registered or licensed or exempt 
from the registration or licensing requirements of broker-dealers and 
entities which engage in securities and insurance businesses, in every state 
where management believes such entities should be so qualified, registered or 
licensed.

 Material federal, state and local regulations affecting the business of 
JMC and its subsidiaries and JMCI include the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, as amended, the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, the 
securities and insurance laws of each state in which JMC and JMCI do business 
and the local ordinances of each city and county in which JMC and JMCI 
maintain an office. 

REGULATION

 JMC and certain of its subsidiaries and JMCI are subject to extensive 
state regulation in those states in which they are licensed to conduct 
insurance business. Each insurance regulator exercises jurisdiction 
over the licensing of agents, supervises the form and XXof sales 
literature and other materials distributed to the public, and generally acts 
to protect consumers from misrepresentation and other unfair conduct. 
Legislation changing the substantive or procedural rules governing the 
insurance departments, insurers or agents may affect the mode of operation 
and profitability of insurance agencies. Insurance commissioners, to protect 
the public, may maintain administrative proceedings which could result in 
cease and desist orders, fines or the suspension or cancellation of an 
 license.

 The securities industry in the United States is also subject to 
extensive regulation under both federal and state law. The SEC is the 
federal agency responsible for the administration of federal securities laws. 
Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to the 
self-regulatory organizations, principally the NASD and the securities 
exchanges. 


 4



Certain of the subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC 
and the NASD. The NASD conducts periodic examinations of member 
broker-dealers in accordance with rules it has adopted and amended from time 
to time, subject to approval by the SEC. These subsidiaries are also subject 
to regulation by state securities authorities in those states in which they 
do business. Additional legislation, changes in the rules promulgated by the 
SEC and the NASD, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing 
laws and rules, may directly affect the mode of operation and profitability 
of broker-dealers. NASD rules applicable to members operating on the 
premises of financial institutions are similar to the rules already adopted 
by bank regulators. See the discussion of the "Interagency Guidelines" 
below. These rules allow the NASD to also regulate the physical location of 
sales within financial institutions, the signage necessary, customer 
disclosures, compensation of unregistered bank employees and public 
communications, among other aspects of the business. The rules are more 
comprehensive and cover areas not previously addressed by the SEC, but have 
been addressed in the "Interagency Guidelines," as discussed below. The SEC, 
the NASD and state securities commissions may conduct administrative 
proceedings which can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of a 
broker-dealer, its officers or employees. The principal purpose of regulation 
and discipline of broker-dealers is the protection of customers and the 
securities markets rather than the protection of creditors and stockholders 
of broker-dealers.

 The client financial institutions also operate in a highly 
regulated environment. Existing federal rulings allow national banks and 
certain other federally regulated financial institutions to sell annuities 
and mutual fund shares, but restrict the sale of many types of insurance 
products. See the discussions of NATIONSBANK VS. VARIABLE ANNUITY LIFE 
INSURANCE COMPANY below. In February 1994, all of the primary federal banking 
regulators issued a single set of guidelines (the "Interagency Guidelines") 
regarding the retail sale of non-deposit investment products, such as 
annuities and mutual funds, through banks, savings and loan associations and 
thrifts. Since issuance of the Interagency Guidelines, the federal banking 
agencies conducted audits of the non-deposit investment programs at numerous 
financial institutions. As a result of these audits, certain of the agencies 
have further clarified certain provisions of the Interagency Guidelines 
especially in regards to customer disclosures. In addition, state-chartered 
financial institutions are subject to regulation by state banking agencies. 
These agencies and state insurance regulators may limit the ability of banks, 
savings and loan associations and thrifts to engage in the annuity, insurance 
and mutual fund sales businesses through third-party marketing organizations 
or otherwise.

 On January 18, 1995, the United States Supreme Court issued its decision 
in the case of NATIONSBANK VS. VARIABLE ANNUITY LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (the 
"VALIC case"). The ruling upheld the Office of the Comptroller of the 
 ("OCC") decision that national banks could sell annuities. The 
Comptroller had found that such products were not insurance within the 
meaning of the National Bank Act and that the sale of annuities by national 
banks was within the "incidental powers" granted to them under that act. The 
U. S. Supreme Court concurred with this judgment. The ruling in the VALIC 
case appears to open the door for federally chartered financial institutions 
to sell annuities, even in states where state insurance laws would prohibit 
such sales. It also appears to create a similar opportunity for state banks 
in the majority of states where state law permits state-chartered financial 
institutions to engage in any business permitted for a national bank. At the 
present time there are federal court proceedings and state and federal 
legislative proposals which could limit or alter the ability of banking 
institutions to sell annuities and insurance products. It is not possible to 
predict the outcome of any such proceeding or the likelihood that any 
particular proposal will be enacted or what effect such a change would have 
on banking institutions.

EMPLOYEES

 As of February 10, 1998, the Company had fourteen full-time employees.


 5



YEAR 1999, CIK 927628, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

OVERVIEW

 Capital One Financial Corporation (the "Corporation"), is a holding company,
incorporated in Delaware on July 21, 1994, whose subsidiaries provide a variety
of products and services to consumers using its proprietary information-based
strategy ("IBS"). The principal subsidiary, Capital One Bank (the
"Bank"), a limited purpose Virginia state chartered credit card bank, offers
credit card products. Capital One, F.S.B. (the "Savings Bank"), a federally
chartered savings bank, offers consumer lending and deposit products. Capital
One Services, Inc., another subsidiary of the Corporation, provides various
operating, administrative and other services to the Corporation and its
subsidiaries. Unless indicated otherwise, the term "Company" refers to the
Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries and for periods prior to the
Separation (as defined herein), Signet /1/ credit card division. The
 common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
COF. The principal executive office is located at 2980 Fairview Park
Drive, Suite 1300, Falls Church, Virginia 22042-4525 (telephone number (703)
205-1000).

 The Company commenced operations in 1953, the same year as the formation of
what is now MasterCard International, and is one of the oldest continually
operating bank card issuers in the United States. The Company is among the ten
largest issuers of Visa and MasterCard credit cards in the U.S. based on managed
credit card loans outstanding as of December 31, 1998. The growth in the
 managed credit card loans and accounts has been due largely to credit
card industry dynamics and the success of the IBS initiated in 1988.

 Prior to November 22, 1994, the Bank conducted its operations as a division of
Signet Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Signet Banking Corporation ("Signet").
Pursuant to the terms of an agreement among Signet, Signet Bank and the
Corporation, Signet Bank contributed designated assets and liabilities of its
credit card division to the Bank, initially established as a subsidiary of
Signet Bank (the "Separation"). Signet Bank immediately distributed the capital
stock of the Bank to Signet, which then contributed such stock to the
Corporation. Concurrently with the Separation, the Corporation issued 7,125,000
shares of the common stock, par value $.01 ("Common Stock") in an
initial public offering. On February 28, 1995, Signet distributed all of the
remaining shares of the Common Stock held by it to Signet shareholders of record
as of February 10, 1995.

 In June 1996, the Company established the Savings Bank to expand the 
product offerings and its relationship with its cardmembers. The Savings Bank
currently takes deposits and offers credit cards and installment loans, in each
case both unsecured and secured. The Savings Bank expects to offer multiple
financial products and services to existing cardmembers and other households
using the IBS and existing information technology systems.

 Through a branch of the Bank in the United Kingdom and several non-bank
operating subsidiaries, the Company offers credit card products outside of the
United States, with an initial focus on the United Kingdom and Canada. The
Company also offers various non-card consumer lending products, automobile
financing and telecommunications services through its subsidiaries.

 Information-Based Strategy

 The IBS is designed to allow the Company to differentiate among
customers based on credit risk, usage and other characteristics and to match
customer characteristics with appropriate product offerings. IBS involves
developing sophisticated models, information systems, well-trained XX and
a flexible culture to create credit card or other products and services that
address the demands of changing consumer and competitive markets. By using
sophisticated statistical modeling techniques, the Company segments its
potential customer lists based upon the integrated use of credit scores,
demographics, customer behavioral characteristics and other criteria. By
actively testing a wide variety of product and service features, marketing
channels and other aspects of its offerings, the Company designs and targets
customized solicitations at various customer segments, thereby enhancing
customer response levels and maximizing returns on investment within given
underwriting parameters.

/1/ Signet Bank and Signet Banking Corporation have since been acquired by First
Union National Bank and First Union Corporation, respectively, as of November
30, 1997.

 
 Continued integrated testing and model development builds on information
gained from earlier phases and is intended to improve the quality, performance
and profitability of the solicitation and account management
initiatives. The Company applies IBS to all areas of its business, including
solicitations, account management, credit line management, pricing strategies,
usage stimulation, collections, recoveries and account and balance retention.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

 The Company maintains three distinct business segments: lending,
telecommunications and "other." The lending segment is comprised primarily of
credit card lending activities. The telecommunications segment consists
primarily of direct marketing of wireless telephone service. "Other" consists
of various, non-lending new business initiatives, including taking deposits.

 Lending

 The Company offers an array of general purpose credit card products to
consumers throughout the United States and in the United Kingdom and Canada.
Products consist of varying annual percentage rates ("APRs") and fee
combinations (annual membership, past-due, overlimit, returned check, cash
advance and other fees), credit limits and other special features or services,
depending on the risk profile and other characteristics of the targeted consumer
segment. The Company offers premium ("platinum" and "gold") cards and unsecured
and secured standard credit card products. The credit card and other
lending opportunities include, and are expected to continue to include, low
introductory and intermediate-rate balance transfer products, low non-
introductory rate products, and other customized credit card products, such as
secured cards, affinity and co-branded cards, student cards and other cards
tailored for specific consumer segments. The customized products are
distinguished by a varied range of credit lines, pricing structures and other
characteristics. Platinum and gold cards, for example, generally have higher
lines of credit and additional ancillary benefits. The Company uses information
derived from proprietary statistical models and targets consumers with carefully
matched combinations of pricing, credit analysis and packaging. The 
pricing philosophy reflects a risk-based approach where consumers with better
credit qualifications generally merit more favorable pricing. The Company
continually tests new product offerings and pricing combinations targeted to
different consumer segments. For example, the low non-introductory
rate products, which are marketed to consumers with the best established credit
profiles, are characterized by higher credit lines, lower yields and an
expectation of lower delinquencies and credit losses than the traditional low
introductory rate balance transfer products. On the other hand, certain other
customized card products are characterized by lower credit lines, higher yields
(including fees) and in some cases, higher delinquencies and credit losses than
the traditional products. These products also involve higher
operational costs but exhibit better response rates, less adverse selection,
less attrition and a greater ability to reprice than the traditional
introductory rate products.

 Additionally, the Company has been applying its IBS to other financial and
non-financial products and services. On July 31, 1998, the Company completed the
acquisition of Summit Acceptance Corporation ("Summit"), a Texas corporation.
Summit is an automobile finance lender located in Dallas, Texas. It offers
loans throughout the United States, secured by automobiles, which are marketed
principally through dealer networks. Summit is the platform to test
and apply its IBS to the automobile loan market.

 The Company has also expanded its existing operations outside of the United
States, with an initial focus on the United Kingdom and Canada. The Company has
experienced growth in the number of accounts and loan balances in its
international business. To support the continued growth of its United Kingdom
business and any future business in Europe, in July 1998, the Company opened a
new operations center in Nottingham, England.
 
 Telecommunications

 The Company continues its efforts to market telecommunications services
through its subsidiary America One Communications, Inc. ("America One").
America initial business, the reselling of wireless services through
direct marketing channels, has recently begun to experience growth in the number
of customers and accounts. As a result of the expenses necessary to build the
operations to support this new business and to acquire new accounts, to date
this business negatively impacts earnings.

 2

 
 Geographic Diversity

 Loan portfolio concentration within a specific geographic region or
demographic portion of the population may be regarded as positive or negative
based upon the current and expected credit characteristics and performance of
the portfolio. The consumer loan portfolio is geographically diverse.
See Note P to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 53 of the 
Annual Report to its stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998 (the
"Annual Report"), which is incorporated herein by reference.

 Origination and Risk Management

 The Company originates accounts through applications mailed directly to
prospective accountholders, (ii) direct mail and telemarketing solicitations for
accounts from individuals whose creditworthiness was prescreened, (iii)
arrangements with affinity groups, (iv) conversion of existing non-premium
accounts to premium accounts, application information taken over the
telephone or through the Internet from prospective accountholders, (vi)
newspaper, magazine, radio, television and Internet advertisements and (vii)
location or event marketing. For account originations and solicitation activity
since 1990, the Company has focused largely on prescreened direct mail and
telemarketing targeted to multiple consumer segments with varying combinations
of product structure and pricing. In general, the prescreening and
underwriting criteria are intended to identify and avoid potential losses.
These procedures are based on limited information, however, and it is not
possible for the Company to identify all potential losses. Since the
introduction of IBS in 1988, the Company has steadily increased its marketing
efforts and has developed a sophisticated screening process to target potential
consumers. The Company tracks and periodically reviews the results of each
solicitation. Management information systems and processes enable management to
monitor the effectiveness of prescreening and underwriting criteria, and such
criteria are modified based on the results obtained from this process.

 The Company employs a comprehensive risk management process that integrates
all aspects of an life cycle, from origination to closure. Marketing
and credit policy decisions are made by a credit policy group consisting of
XX management representatives from the credit operations, risk management
and marketing and analysis units. This group originates credit policy from the
viewpoints of both profitability and credit risk, based on prescreening
criteria, proprietary model development and usage, as well as reviews of test
programs and test results. Significant test results are reviewed before the
widespread introduction of a tested policy or product.

 The Company uses various credit risk scores, generated by both third party
providers of scoring models and by proprietary models. These scores are used,
together with other criteria, in multiple screening reviews at both the
prescreening stage and the credit application stage. Score usage continues after
the account has been established and throughout its life cycle to adjust credit
lines, pricing and collection policies.

 Credit Operations

 The credit extension process is actively managed by XX
management and is designed to bring consistency in credit practices and
operating efficiencies. The scoring technology and verification
procedures are highly automated with limited judgmental review. The credit
evaluation process is based on proprietary models using, among other things,
scores developed by nationally recognized scoring firms and tailored to
individual programs. These scores are validated, monitored and maintained by the
Company as part of IBS. The scores provide a statistically measurable way to
make decisions about applications, to evaluate risk and to modify credit
extension policies.

 The prescreened account solicitation process generally utilizes
information from credit reporting agencies to identify consumers who are likely
to be approved for a credit card account. The sets of underwriting criteria
used to prescreen potential applicants vary from time to time in accordance with
the established policies and procedures relating to the operation of
its consumer revolving lending business, as such policies may be changed from
time to time, and include various models, including risk models, designed to
predict the credit risk of potential cardholders. In order to establish the
amount of the credit line, the information on returned applications
is analyzed and may be verified. Each customer whose credit request meets all of
the underwriting criteria is generally offered a line of credit equal to or in
excess of a minimum level which is established for each product offering.

 3

 
 The Company may also manually review applications that are rejected by the
 credit scoring system because of inconsistencies in application
information, an inquiry from a rejected applicant or for other reasons. Credit
analysts then have the ability to override decisions made by the system upon the
receipt of additional information from an applicant or otherwise.

 For non-pre-screened solicitations, the Company acquires names of prospective
customers from a variety of sources, including list vendors, and then edits the
list utilizing internal and external sources to ensure quality and accuracy.
The prospective customers on the final list are mailed solicitations.
Prospective customers who respond to a solicitation are approved or declined
based on the characteristics drawn from both the application submitted and a
credit reporting agency.

 Under the secured credit card program, an accountholder provides the
Company with a sum of money in the form of a check or money order as security
for such payment obligations arising under the secured credit
card. The funds equal all, or a portion, of the credit limit available to the
accountholder. If a secured credit card account becomes delinquent, the Company
may immediately withdraw funds from the deposit account to satisfy the
 payment obligations. Notwithstanding this right to immediately
withdraw funds, the Company typically will not withdraw funds until shortly
before the secured credit card account is charged off as uncollectible.

 Account Management

 Management has found that active account management is necessary in order to
respond to the changing economic environment and cardholder risk, usage and
payment patterns. The Company applies new credit scores to each account multiple
times each year and new behavioral scores for open accounts each month. This
information is used in account management strategies relating to credit lines,
pricing, usage stimulation, retention and collection. For creditworthy and
profitable accounts, such periodic review may result in more favorable pricing,
higher credit lines or other enhancements which, based on testing, are likely to
increase account usage or the overall profitability of an account. Conversely,
for delinquent or other accounts with significant credit risk, periodic review
may result in an account being reassigned to a higher risk category and hence
not being eligible for credit line increases or, in certain circumstances,
having pricing adjusted upward or the credit line reduced.

 The IBS approach has allowed the Company to develop customized collections and
pricing strategies based on cardholder behavior. Similarly, IBS has been used in
developing the retention strategies. The Company has developed
integrated systems which evaluate account profitability and risk, test various
strategies for cost and effectiveness in retaining cardholders and assist
service representatives in negotiating potential pricing alternatives. Certain
of the products, including the introductory interest rate program and
balance transfer program, have a repricing feature after an initial period. The
Company has developed methodologies for retaining these accounts and the
balances in these accounts after the expiration of the initial period.

 Collection Procedures

 The Company generally considers an account delinquent if a minimum payment due
thereunder is not received by the Company by the payment due
date. The Company makes use of behavioral scoring models designed to predict
the probability of an account charging off. Based on the behavioral score and
certain other factors, the Company determines the timing of the collection
activity to be implemented for the account. Delinquent accounts are currently
referred for contact by phone between seven and 60 days after contractual
delinquency, depending on the risk profile. In any event, the
 statement reflects the request for payment of past due amounts.
Efforts to collect delinquent credit card accounts are generally made by the
 regular collection group, supplemented in certain cases by collection
agencies.

 The focus of the response to an early stage delinquency is
rehabilitation and identification of the causes for delinquency. The 
policies and procedures are designed to encourage accountholders to pay
delinquent amounts; for example, once a delinquent account has re-established a
payment pattern with three consecutive minimum monthly payments, it can be re-
aged as current. Federal guidelines restrict how frequently an account can be
re-aged, renewed or extended.

 The Company reserves the right to suspend charging privileges at any time
after an account enters the collections process. In most cases, an account is
restricted and charging privileges are suspended no later than 105 days after
contractual delinquency. The Company may also, at its discretion, enter into
arrangements with delinquent accountholders to extend or otherwise change
payment schedules.

 4

 
 During the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company modified its methodology for
charging off credit card loans. The Company now charges off as uncollectible an
account (net of collateral) at 180 days past-due versus the prior practice of
charging off the account in the next billing cycle after becoming 180 days past-
due. In connection with a secured card account, except as set forth below, funds
deposited as collateral will generally be applied to payment on the account
shortly before the account is charged off as uncollectible. With respect to
bankrupt customers, the Company generally charges off the account within 30 days
after the Company receives the bankruptcy petition and, with respect to secured
credit card accounts, funds deposited as collateral will be applied in
satisfaction of the account only after the bankruptcy automatic stay is lifted.
The Company charges off accounts of deceased customers within 60 days of
receiving proper notice if no estate exists against which a proof of claim can
be filed, no other party remits payments or no other responsible party is
available. The credit evaluation, servicing and charge off policies
and collection practices may change over time in accordance with the business
judgment of the Company, applicable law and guidelines established by applicable
regulatory authorities.

 Technology/Systems

 A key part of the strategic focus is the development of flexible,
high-volume systems capable of handling the growth and changes in
marketing and account management strategies. Management believes that the
continued development and integration of these systems is important to its
efforts to reduce its operating costs and maintain a competitive advantage.

 The Company has developed proprietary integrated systems which allow
associates to manage the large volumes of data collected through the IBS process
and to utilize such data in the account solicitations, application
processing, account management and retention strategies. The Company uses this
information to predict consumer behavior and then matches prospects to lending
products with various terms and fees. These systems also allow the 
customer service representatives to access account specific information when
responding to customer inquiries.

 Funding

 The primary methods of funding include loan securitizations, issuing
certificates of deposit, XX and deposit notes and other borrowings, and fed
funds purchased from financial institutions. For a discussion of the 
funding program, see pages 19-20 and pages 28-29 of the Annual Report under the
respective headings " Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations--Managed Consumer Loan Portfolio" and "--
Funding," which are incorporated herein by reference.

COMPETITION

 As a marketer of credit card products, the Company faces intense and
increasing competition in all aspects of its business from numerous bank and
non-bank providers of financial services. Many of these companies are
substantially larger and have more resources than the Company. The Company
competes with national, regional and local issuers of Visa and MasterCard credit
cards. In addition, American Express, Discover Card, Club and, to a
certain extent, smart cards and debit cards, represent additional competition in
the general purpose credit card market. In general, customers are attracted to
credit card issuers largely on the basis of price, credit limit and other
product features and customer loyalty is often limited. The Company believes
that IBS will allow it to more effectively compete in this and new markets.
There can be no assurance, however, that the ability to market its
services successfully or to obtain adequate yield on its loans will not be
impacted by the nature of the competition that now exists or may later develop.

 In addition, the Company faces competition in seeking public funding from
banks, savings banks, money market funds and a wide variety of other entities
that take deposits and/or sell debt securities, some of which are publicly
traded. Many of these companies are substantially larger, have more capital and
other resources and have better financial ratings than the Company. Accordingly,
there can be no assurance that competition from these other borrowers will not
increase the cost of funds.

 5

 
EMPLOYEES

 As of December 31, 1998, the Company employed 10,073 full-time and 359 part-
time employees, which the Company refers to as "associates." A central part of
the philosophy is to attract and maintain a highly capable staff. The
Company views current associate relations to be satisfactory. None of the
 associates are covered under collective bargaining agreements.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

 General

 The Bank is a banking corporation chartered under Virginia law and a member of
the Federal Reserve System, the deposits of which are insured by the Bank
Insurance Fund (the "BIF") of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the
"FDIC"). The Bank is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic
examination by the Bureau of Financial Institutions of the Virginia State
Corporation Commission (the "Bureau of Financial Institutions"), the Federal
Reserve Board (the "Federal Reserve"), the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, the
FDIC and in the case of the United Kingdom branch of the Bank, the Financial
Services Authority. The Bank is not a "bank" under the Bank Holding Company Act
of 1956, as amended (the "BHCA"), because it engages only in credit card
operations, (ii) does not accept demand deposits or deposits that the depositor
may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties or others,
(iii) does not accept any savings or time deposits of less than $100,000, other
than as permitted as collateral for extensions of credit, (iv) maintains only
one office that accepts deposits and does not engage in the business of
making commercial loans. Due to the status as a limited purpose credit
card bank, any non-credit card operations which may be conducted by the Company
must be conducted in other operating subsidiaries of the Company.

 The Savings Bank is a federal savings bank chartered by the Office of Thrift
Supervision (the "OTS") and is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
Its deposits are insured by the Savings Association Insurance Fund ("SAIF") of
the FDIC. The Savings Bank is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic
examination by the OTS and the FDIC.

 The Corporation is not a bank holding company under the BHCA as a result of
the ownership of the Bank because the Bank is not a "bank" as
defined under the BHCA. If the Bank failed to meet the credit card bank
exemption criteria described above, the status as an insured depository
institution would make the Corporation subject to the provisions of the BHCA,
including certain restrictions as to the types activities in which a
bank holding company and its affiliates may engage. Becoming a bank holding
company under the BHCA would affect the ability to engage in
certain non-banking businesses. In addition, for purposes of the BHCA, if the
Bank failed to qualify for the credit card bank exemption, any entity that
acquired direct or indirect control of the Bank and also engaged in activities
not permitted for bank holding companies could be required either to discontinue
the impermissible activities or to divest itself of control of the Bank.

 As a result of the ownership of the Savings Bank, the
Corporation is a unitary savings and loan holding company subject to regulation
by the OTS and the provisions of the Savings and Loan Holding Company Act. As a
unitary savings and loan holding company, the Corporation generally is not
restricted under existing laws as to the types activities in which
it may engage so long as the Savings Bank continues to meet the qualified thrift
lender test (the "QTL Test"). If the Corporation ceased to be a unitary savings
and loan holding company as a result of its acquisition of an additional savings
institution or as a result of the failure of the Savings Bank to meet the QTL
Test, the types of activities that the Corporation and its non-savings
association subsidiaries would be able to engage in would generally be limited
to those eligible for bank holding companies.

 The Corporation is also registered as a financial institution holding company
under Virginia law and as such is subject to periodic examination by the Bureau
of Financial Institutions.

 Dividends and Transfers of Funds

 The principal source of funds for the Corporation to pay dividends on stock,
make payments on debt securities and meet other obligations is dividends from
its direct and indirect subsidiaries. There are various federal and Virginia law
limitations on the extent to which the Bank and the Savings Bank can finance or
otherwise supply funds to the Corporation through dividends, loans or otherwise.
These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements, Federal
Reserve, OTS and Virginia law requirements concerning the payment of dividends
out of net profits or surplus, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act
governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its
affiliates and general federal and Virginia regulatory oversight to prevent
unsafe or unsound practices. In general, federal banking laws prohibit an
insured depository institution, such as the Bank

 6

 
and the Savings Bank, from making dividend distributions if such distributions
are not paid out of available earnings or would cause the institution to fail to
meet applicable capital adequacy standards. In addition, the Savings Bank is
required to give the OTS at least 30 days' advance notice of any proposed
dividend. Under OTS regulations, other limitations apply to the Savings 
ability to pay dividends, the magnitude of which depends upon the extent to
which the Savings Bank meets its regulatory capital requirements. In addition,
under Virginia law, the Bureau of Financial Institutions may limit the payment
of dividends by the Bank if the Bureau of Financial Institutions determines that
such a limitation would be in the public interest and necessary for the 
safety and soundness.

 Capital Adequacy

 The Bank and the Savings Bank are currently subject to capital adequacy
guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve and the OTS, respectively. For a
further discussion of the capital adequacy guidelines, see page 29 of the Annual
Report under the heading " Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations--Capital Adequacy" and Note K to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 51, which are incorporated herein by
reference.

 FDICIA

 Among other things, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act
of 1991 ("FDICIA") requires federal bank regulatory authorities to take "prompt
corrective action" ("PCA") in respect of insured depository institutions that do
not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital ratio
levels: well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, undercapitalized,
significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. Under applicable
regulations, an insured depository institution is considered to be well-
capitalized if it maintains a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio (or core capital
to risk-adjusted assets in the case of the Savings Bank) of at least 6.00%, a
total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.00% and a Tier 1 leverage capital
ratio (or core capital ratio in the case of the Savings Bank) of at least 5.00%,
and is not otherwise in a "troubled condition" as specified by its appropriate
federal regulatory agency. An insured depository institution is considered to be
adequately-capitalized if it maintains a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio (or
core capital to risk-adjusted assets in the case of the Savings Bank) of at
least 4.00%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.00% and a Tier 1
leverage capital ratio (or core capital ratio in the case of the Savings Bank)
of at least 4.00% (3.00% for certain highly rated institutions), and does not
otherwise meet the well-capitalized definition. The three undercapitalized
categories are based upon the amount by which the insured depository institution
falls below the ratios applicable to adequately-capitalized institutions. The
capital categories are determined solely for the purposes of applying 
PCA provisions, as discussed below, and such capital categories may not
constitute an accurate representation of the overall financial condition or
prospects of the Bank or the Savings Bank.

 As of December 31, 1998, each of the Bank and the Savings Bank met the
requirements for a "well-capitalized" institution. A "well-capitalized"
classification should not necessarily be viewed as describing the condition or
future prospects of a depository institution, including the Bank and the Savings
Bank.

 Under PCA system, an insured depository institution in the
"undercapitalized category" must submit a capital restoration plan guaranteed by
its parent company. The liability of the parent company under any such guarantee
is limited to the lesser of 5.00% of the insured depository assets
at the time it became undercapitalized, or the amount needed to comply with the
plan. An insured depository institution in the undercapitalized category also is
subject to limitations in numerous areas including, but not limited to, asset
growth, acquisitions, branching, new business lines, acceptance of brokered
deposits and borrowings from the Federal Reserve. Progressively more burdensome
restrictions are applied to insured depository institutions in the
undercapitalized category that fail to submit or implement a capital plan and to
insured depository institutions that are in the significantly undercapitalized
or critically undercapitalized categories. In addition, an insured depository
 primary federal banking agency is authorized to downgrade the
 capital category to the next lower category upon a determination
that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition or is engaged in an
unsafe or unsound practice. An unsafe or unsound practice can include receipt by
the institution of a less than satisfactory rating on its most recent
examination with respect to its capital, asset quality, management, earnings or
liquidity.

 "Critically undercapitalized" insured depository institutions (which are
defined to include institutions that still have a positive net worth) may not,
beginning 60 days after becoming "critically undercapitalized," make any payment
of principal or interest on their subordinated debt (subject to certain limited
exceptions). Thus, in the event an institution became "critically
undercapitalized," it would generally be prohibited from making payments on its
subordinated debt securities. In addition, "critically undercapitalized"
institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator.

 7

 
 FDICIA requires the federal banking agencies to review the risk-based capital
standards to ensure that they adequately address interest rate risk,
concentration of credit risk and risks from non-traditional activities. The OTS
amended its risk-based capital rules to incorporate interest rate risk
requirements under which a savings bank must hold additional capital if it
projects an excessive decline in "net portfolio value" in the event interest
rates increase or decrease by two percentage points. These standards are not yet
in effect.

 FDICIA also requires the FDIC to implement a system of risk-based premiums for
deposit insurance pursuant to which the premiums paid by a depository
institution will be based on the probability that the FDIC will incur a loss in
respect of such institution. The FDIC has since adopted a system that imposes
insurance premiums based upon a matrix that takes into account an 
capital level and supervisory rating.

 The Bank and the Savings Bank may accept brokered deposits as part of their
funding. Under FDICIA, only "well-capitalized'" and "adequately-capitalized"
institutions may accept brokered deposits. "Adequately-capitalized"
institutions, however, must first obtain a waiver from the FDIC before accepting
brokered deposits, and such deposits may not pay rates that significantly exceed
the rates paid on deposits of similar maturity from the normal
market area or the national rate on deposits of comparable maturity, as
determined by the FDIC, for deposits from outside the normal
market area.

 Liability for Commonly-Controlled Institutions

 Under the "cross-guarantee" provision of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 ("FIRREA"), insured depository institutions
such as the Bank and the Savings Bank may be liable to the FDIC in respect of
any loss or reasonably anticipated loss incurred by the FDIC resulting from the
default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository
institution. The Bank and the Savings Bank are commonly controlled within the
meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.

 Investment Limitation and Qualified Thrift Lender Test

 Federally-chartered savings banks such as the Savings Bank are subject to
certain investment limitations. For example, federal savings banks are not
permitted to make consumer loans (i.e., certain open-end or closed-end loans for
personal, family or household purposes, excluding credit card loans) in excess
of 35% of the savings assets. Federal savings banks are also required to
meet the QTL Test, which generally requires a savings bank to maintain at least
65% "portfolio assets" (total assets less specified liquid assets up to 20%
of total assets, (ii) intangibles, including goodwill and (iii) property used to
conduct business) in certain "qualified thrift investments" (residential
mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage backed and
mortgage related investments, small business related securities, certain state
and federal housing investments, education loans and credit card loans) on a
monthly basis in nine out of every 12 months. Failure to qualify under the QTL
Test could subject the Savings Bank to substantial restrictions on its
activities and to certain other penalties, and could subject the Company to the
provisions of the BHCA, including the activity restrictions that apply generally
to bank holding companies and their affiliates. As of December 31, 1998, 86.07%
of the Savings portfolio assets were held in qualified thrift
investments, and the Savings Bank was in compliance with the QTL Test.

 Lending Activities

 The activities of the Bank and the Savings Bank as consumer lenders are also
subject to extensive regulation under various federal laws including the Truth-
in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act,
the Community Reinvestment Act and the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act,
as well as to various state laws. Regulators are authorized to impose penalties
for violations of these statutes and, in certain cases, to order the Bank and
the Savings Bank to pay restitution to injured borrowers. Borrowers may also
bring actions for certain violations. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief
and collection laws also affect the ability of the Bank and the Savings Bank to
collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers who seek relief under these
statutes.

 8

 
 Year 2000

 On October 15, 1998, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency --
Department of Treasury, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OTS -- Department
of Treasury, together published Interagency Guidelines establishing Year 2000
Standards for Safety and Soundness. These were made effective November 2, 1998,
by the Federal Reserve (Amendments to Regulation H Membership of State Banking
Institutions in the Federal Reserve System, Appendix D-2 -- Interagency
Guidelines Establishing Year 2000 Standards for Safety and Soundness) (the
"Standards"). Among other things, the Standards require components and
timetables for the review of mission critical systems for year 2000 readiness,
renovation of internal and external mission critical systems, testing of mission
critical systems, business resumption contingency planning, remediation
contingency planning, customer risk assessment and involvement of the board of
 management. The year 2000 plan is subject to and in
compliance with the Standards. For a further discussion of the 
preparation for the year 2000, see pages 33-34 of the Annual Report under the
heading " Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations -- Business Outlook -- Year 2000."

 Legislation

 From time to time legislation has been proposed in Congress to limit interest
rates and fees that could be charged on credit card accounts or otherwise
restrict practices of credit card issuers. Various bills have also been
introduced that would eliminate a separate savings bank charter, possibly
requiring that existing savings banks become banks; eliminate or restrict the
authority of a unitary savings and loan holding company to engage in activities
ineligible for bank holding companies; and repeal in some respects the
provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act prohibiting certain banking organizations
from engaging in certain securities activities and the provisions of the BHCA
prohibiting affiliations between banking organizations and non-banking
organizations. Legislation has also been proposed to change existing federal
bankruptcy laws. It is unclear at this time whether and in what form any such
legislation will be adopted or, if adopted, what its impact on the Bank, the
Savings Bank or the Company would be. Congress may in the future consider other
legislation that would materially affect the banking or credit card industries.

 Investment in the Corporation, the Bank and the Savings Bank

 Certain acquisitions of capital stock may be subject to regulatory approval or
notice under federal or Virginia law. Investors are responsible for insuring
that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire shares of capital stock of the
Company in excess of the amount which can be acquired without regulatory
approval.

 The Bank and the Savings Bank are each "insured depository institutions"
within the meaning of the Change in Bank Control Act. Consequently, federal law
and regulations prohibit any person or company from acquiring control of the
Company without, in most cases, prior written approval of the Federal Reserve or
the OTS, as applicable. Control is conclusively presumed if, among other things,
a person or company acquires more than 25% of any class of voting stock of the
Corporation. A rebuttable presumption of control arises if a person or company
acquires more than 10% of any class of voting stock and is subject to any of a
number of specified "control factors" as set forth in the applicable
regulations.

 Although the Bank is not a "bank" within the meaning of reciprocal
interstate banking legislation (Chapter 15 of Title 6.1 of the Code of
Virginia), it is a "bank" within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 6.1 of the
Code of Virginia governing the acquisition of interests in Virginia financial
institutions (the "Financial Institution Holding Company Act"). The Financial
Institution Holding Company Act prohibits any person or entity from acquiring,
or making any public offer to acquire, control of a Virginia financial
institution or its holding company without making application to, and receiving
prior approval from, the Bureau of Financial Institutions.

 Interstate Taxation

 Several states have passed legislation which attempts to tax the income from
interstate financial activities, including credit cards, derived from accounts
held by local state residents. Based on the volume of its business in these
states and the nature of the legislation passed to date, the Company currently
believes that this development will not materially affect the financial
condition of the Bank, the Savings Bank or the Company. The states may also
consider legislation to tax income derived from transactions conducted through
the Internet. The Company currently solicits accounts and takes account
information via the Internet. It is unclear at this time, however, whether and
in what form any such legislation will be adopted or, if adopted, what its
impact on the Company would be.

 9

 
RISK FACTORS
 
 This Annual Report on form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. We may
also make written or oral forward-looking statements in our periodic reports to
the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, in our annual
report to shareholders, in our proxy statements, in our offering circulars and
prospectuses, in press releases and other written materials and in oral
statements made by our officers, directors or employees to third parties.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs
and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include information relating to growth in diluted earnings per share, return on
equity, growth in managed loans outstanding and customer accounts, net interest
margins, funding costs, operations costs and employment growth, marketing
expense, delinquencies and charge-offs. Forward-looking statements also include
statements using words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan,"
"believe," "estimate" or similar expressions. These statements are based on
current plans, estimates and projections, and therefore you should not place
undue reliance on them.

 Although the Company has tried to discuss all important factors, please be
aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may
emerge at any time and it is not possible for the Company to predict such risks
or to estimate the extent to which they may affect the financial
performance.

 Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. They
involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risks discussed
below. The future performance and actual results may differ materially
from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Many of the factors
that will determine these results and values are beyond the ability to
control or predict. This section highlights specific risks that could affect
the Company and its business.

Intense Competition
 
 The Company faces intense competition from many other providers of credit
cards and other financial products and services. In particular, the Company
competes with national, regional and local bank card issuers, and with other
general purpose credit or charge card issuers. The Company also competes, to a
lesser extent, with "smart card" and debit card providers and with single
purpose card issuers, such as department stores. Many of these companies are
substantially larger than the Company and have more capital and other resources
than the Company does. Additionally, other credit card companies compete with
the Company for customers by offering lower interest rates and fees. Because
customers generally choose credit card issuers based on price (mostly interest
rates and fees), credit limit and other product features, customer loyalty is
limited. The Company may lose entire accounts, or may lose account balances, to
competing card issuers.

 In the past, the Company has faced intense competition primarily with its low
introductory rate credit cards. Recently, however, the competition with the
 other credit card products, such as its low fixed rate cards, secured
cards and other customized cards, has also become more intense. The Company
expects that competition will continue to grow more intense with respect to all
of its products, including the products in the United Kingdom and
Canada, the telecommunications services offered by America One and the
automobile loans offered by Summit.

 Accounts and Loan Balances Will Fluctuate

 The accounts and loan balances and the rate at which they grow are
affected by a number of factors, including how the Company allocates its
marketing investment among different products and the rate at which customers
transfer their accounts and loan balances to competing card issuers. Accounts
and loan balances are also affected by general economic conditions, which may
increase or decrease the amount of spending by customers and their ability to
repay their loans, and other factors beyond the control of the Company

 Because the Company designed its IBS to take advantage of market
opportunities, it is difficult for the Company to forecast how it will spend its
marketing funds and on which products. Likewise, the account and loan
balance growth is affected by many factors, including the ones mentioned above.
The results, therefore, will vary as marketing investments, accounts
and loan balances fluctuate.

 10

 
Difficulty of Sustaining and Managing Growth

 The growth strategy is threefold. First, the Company seeks to
continue to grow its domestic credit card business. Second, the Company desires
to grow its lending business internationally, in the United Kingdom, Canada and
beyond. Third, the Company hopes to identify and pursue new business
opportunities, both financial and non-financial. The management
believes that, through IBS, the Company can grow its credit card portfolio both
domestically and internationally and develop new products and services.
However, there are a number of factors that can affect the ability to
do so including:

 . the ability to retain existing customers and to attract new
 customers;
 . the growth of existing and new account balances; 
 . the delinquency and charge off levels of accounts; 
 . the availability of funding on favorable terms; 
 . the amount of funds available for marketing investment used to solicit new
 customers; 
 . general economic and other factors; 
 . a favorable interest rate environment; 
 . the ability to build or acquire the necessary operational and 
 organizational infrastructure; and 
 . the ability to recruit experienced management and operations 
 XX. 

The expansion internationally is affected by additional factors such
as limited access to information, differences in cultural attitudes toward
credit, new regulatory and legislative environments and differences from the
United States historical experience of portfolio performance in different
countries.

 Difficulties or delays in the development, production, testing and marketing
of new products or services will affect the success of such products or
services. Such difficulties could include:

 . failure to implement new product or service programs on time; 
 . failure of customers to accept these products or services; 
 . operational difficulties or delays; 
 . losses arising from the testing of new products or services; and 
 . legal and other difficulties. 

In addition, the new product and services may not achieve the same
financial results as the Company has achieved in the past from its credit card
business.

 Limited Availability of Financing and Variable Funding Costs

 Like most credit card companies, the primary source of funding is
the securitization of consumer loans. Securitization transactions involve the
sale of beneficial interests in consumer loan balances. Until now, the Company
has completed securitization transactions on terms that it believes are
favorable. The availability of securitization funding, however, depends on how
difficult and expensive such funding is. Securitizations can be affected by
many factors, such as whether a third party will guarantee the 
obligations and the rates at which accountholders have repaid their balances in
the past. In addition, legal, regulatory, accounting and tax changes can make
securitization funding more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any
terms. Securitizations may not always offer the Company attractive funding, and
the Company may have to seek other more expensive funding sources in the future.

 In general, the amount, type and cost of the financing affects the
 financial results. Changes within the organization, changes
in the activities of parties the Company has agreements or understandings with,
and changes affecting the investments could all make the financing
available to the Company more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any
terms. In addition, banks, savings banks and similar companies compete with the
Company for funding. Some of these institutions are publicly traded. Many of
these institutions are substantially larger, have more capital and other
resources and have better financial ratings than the Company. Competition from
these other borrowers may increase the cost of funds. Events that
disrupt capital markets and other reasons beyond the control could
also make the funding sources more expensive or unavailable.

 11

 
Risk of Increased Delinquencies and Credit Losses

 The Company, like other consumer lenders, faces the risk that accountholders
will not repay their loans, resulting in accounts becoming uncollectible.
Consumers who miss payments on their loans often fail to repay them, and
consumers who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not
repay their loans. Therefore, the rate of missed payments, or "delinquencies,"
on the portfolio of loans, and the rate at which consumers may be
expected to file for bankruptcy, can be used to predict the future rate at which
the Company charges off its consumer loans. A high charge-off rate would hurt
the financial performance and the performance of the 
securitizations.

 Widespread increases in past-due payments and nonpayment are most likely to
occur if the country or a regional area encounters an economic downturn, such as
a recession, but they could also occur for other reasons. For example, fraud
can cause loss. In addition, the age and rate of growth, or "seasoning," of a
consumer loan portfolio also affects the rate of missed payments and loans
charged off as uncollectible. If the Company makes fewer loans than it has in
the past, the proportion of new loans in its portfolio will decrease and the
delinquency rate and charge-off rate may increase. Therefore, the seasoning of
accounts may require higher loan loss provisions and reserves. This would
result in lower earnings unless offset by other changes.

 In addition, the Company markets many of its secured card products and other
customized credit card products to consumers with limited credit histories. As a
result, these underserved markets sometimes have less experience with credit
risk and performance. These markets, in some cases, also have higher delinquency
and charge-off rates. Although the Company believes that its IBS can help it to
effectively price these products in relation to their risk, the Company may not
set high enough fees and rates for these accounts to offset the higher
delinquency and loss rates that the Company expects.

Risk of Economic Downturns and Social Factors

 Delinquencies and credit losses in the credit card industry generally increase
during periods of an economic downturn or recession. Likewise, consumer demand
may decline during an economic downturn or recession. Accordingly, an economic
downturn or recession (either local or national) can hurt the 
financial performance as accountholders default on their loans or carry lower
balances. As the Company increasingly markets its cards internationally, an
economic downturn or recession outside the United States could also hurt the
 financial performance. A variety of social factors may also cause
changes in credit card use, payment patterns and the rate of defaults by
accountholders. Social factors include changes in consumer confidence levels,
the perception of the use of credit cards and changing attitudes about
incurring debt and the stigma of personal bankruptcy. The Company believes that
it can manage these risks through its underwriting criteria and product design.
Nevertheless, underwriting criteria and design may not be enough to protect the
 growth and profitability during a sustained period of economic
downturn or recession or a material shift in social attitudes.

 
Risk of Interest Rate Fluctuations

 The Company, like other financial institutions, borrows money from
institutions and depositors in order to lend money to customers. The Company
earns interest on the consumer loans it makes, and pays interest on the deposits
and borrowings it uses to fund those loans. The difference between these two
rates affects the value of the assets and liabilities. If the rate of
interest the Company pays on its borrowings increases more than the rate of
interest the Company earns on its loans, the earnings could fall. The
 earnings could also be hurt if the rates on its consumer loans fall
more quickly than those on its borrowings.

 The Company manages these risks partly by changing the interest rates it
charges on its customer accounts. The success of repricing accounts to match an
increase or decrease in the borrowing rates depends on the overall
product mix of such accounts, the actual amount of accounts repriced, the rate
at which the Company is originating new accounts, and the ability to
retain accounts (and the related loan balances) after being repriced. For
example, if the Company increases the interest rate it charges on its consumer
loan accounts and the accountholders close their accounts as a result, then the
Company won't be able to match its increased borrowing costs as quickly.

 The Company also manages the risk of interest rate fluctuations through
various financial instruments and techniques, such as interest rate swaps and
similar financial instruments, hedging and other techniques. The goal is to
maintain an interest rate neutral or "matched" position, where interest rates on
loans and borrowings go up or down by the same amount and at the same time. The
Company cannot, however, always achieve this position at a reasonable cost.
Furthermore, if these techniques become unavailable or impractical, then the
 earnings could be hurt.

 12

 
Regulation and Legislation Can Change

 Federal and state laws and rules significantly limit the types of activities
in which the Company engages. For example, federal and state consumer
protection laws and rules limit the manner in which the Company may offer and
extend credit. From time to time, the United States Congress and the states
consider changing these laws and may enact new laws or amend existing laws to
regulate further the consumer lending industry. Such new laws or rules could
limit the amount of interest or fees the Company can charge or restrict its
ability to collect on account balances, or materially affect the Company or the
banking or credit card industries in some other manner. Various bills have also
been introduced that would eliminate a separate savings bank charter, possibly
requiring that existing savings banks become banks; eliminate or restrict the
authority of a unitary savings and loan holding company to engage in activities
ineligible for bank holding companies; and repeal in some respects the
provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act prohibiting certain banking organizations
from engaging in certain securities activities and the provisions of the BHCA
prohibiting affiliations between banking organizations and non-banking
organizations. The laws governing bankruptcy and debtor relief also could
change, making it more expensive or more difficult for the Company to collect
from its customers. Congress is currently considering legislation that would
change the existing federal bankruptcy laws. Because it is not clear whether or
in what form Congress may adopt this legislation, the Company cannot predict how
this legislation may affect the Company, the Bank or the Savings Bank.

 In addition, the existing laws and rules are complex. If the Company fails
to comply with them it might not be able to collect its loans in full, or it
might be required to pay damages or penalties to its customers. For these
reasons, new or changes in existing laws or rules could hurt the 
profits.


Expenses and Other Costs Will Fluctuate

 The expenses and other costs, such as associate and marketing
expenses, directly effect its earnings results. Many factors can influence the
amount of the expenses, as well has how quickly they grow. As the
Company develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise
from asset purchases, structural reorganization or a reevaluation 
strategies. Other factors that can affect expenses include legal and
administrative cases and proceedings, which can be expensive to pursue or
defend. In addition, accounting policies that change can significantly effect
how the Company calculates its expenses and earnings.


Risk of Technology Delays and Year 2000 Compliance

 The Company uses its sophisticated computer systems in all aspects of its
business, from IBS to payment processing to customer service. The Company also
uses various outside vendors of computer systems and products. System delays,
malfunctions and errors in these systems could cause delays and additional costs
in most areas in which the Company relies on computers. In addition, if
computer problems are not corrected quickly, customers could become
dissatisfied. This could affect the customer base and the level of
service it provides.

 The "Year 2000 Issue," for example, has arisen because many computer systems
around the world use two digits instead of four digits to define a year. As a
result, many computers will read the year 2000 as 1900 unless these computers
are modified or replaced. The preparations for the year 2000 are
described on pages 33-34 of the Annual Report under the heading "
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -
Business Outlook - Year 2000." The Company expects to have all of its system
modifications completed and tested extensively by the end of 1999, but
unforeseen problems could arise if the Company, or the companies with which it
does business, are not prepared for the year 2000. The Company relies heavily
on its computers and any delays or malfunctions could hurt the 
financial results. In addition, vendors used by the Company might not be year
2000 compliant. If these vendors don't provide the products, services or
systems that the Company needs, the Company and operations could be
hurt. For example, if the United States postal service or the 
telephone carriers are not year 2000 compliant, the ability to solicit
new customers and service the accounts of its existing customers could be
disrupted or delayed.

 13

 
 YEAR 1999, CIK 947484, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

 Certain terms used below are defined in the "Glossary of Selected
Insurance Terms" appearing on pages 22-25 of this Report.

General

 The Company

 Risk Capital Holdings, Inc. ("RCHI") was incorporated in March 1995 under
the laws of the State of Delaware with the objective of becoming a global
reinsurance company which integrates sound reinsurance underwriting with an
investment strategy focused on the insurance industry. RCHI believes that
reinsurance underwriting and investment skills can be mutually reinforcing and
that successfully employing such skills in an integrated manner can result in
enhanced stockholder returns. RCHI operates through its wholly owned subsidiary,
Risk Capital Reinsurance Company ("Risk Capital Reinsurance" and, together with
RCHI, unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company"), whose primary focus
is on property and casualty reinsurance treaty coverages, including excess of
loss reinsurance and quota share or proportional reinsurance. Based upon data
available from the Reinsurance Association of America ("RAA"), Risk Capital
Reinsurance is the twelfth largest United States based broker market oriented
reinsurer as measured by statutory surplus at December 31, 1998. As of that
date, Risk Capital Reinsurance had statutory capital and surplus of $358.7
million and an "A (Excellent)" rating from A.M. Best Company ("A.M. Best").

 In September 1995, RCHI completed an initial public offering of
9,775,000 shares of its common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common
Stock"), and (ii) concurrent direct sales of an aggregate of 6,975,625
shares of Common Stock and warrants to purchase 4,451,680 shares of Common
Stock (of which 2,531,079 shares are subject to immediately exercisable
warrants) for aggregate proceeds, net of underwriting expenses, of approximately
$335.0 million (collectively, the "Offerings"). RCHI contributed $328.0 million
of such proceeds to the capital of Risk Capital Reinsurance. In November 1995,
Risk Capital Reinsurance was licensed under the insurance laws of the State of
Nebraska.

 In October 1998, the Company received regulatory authorization for a newly
formed insurance subsidiary, Cross River Insurance Company ("Cross River"). As a
surplus lines carrier, Cross River is licensed in only its state of domicile,
Nebraska, and expects to write primary insurance business on a non-admitted
basis in selected states.

 Marsh & McLennan Capital, Inc. (formerly Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital
Corp.; herein referred to as "MMCI"), a subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan
Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise
requires, "Marsh & McLennan"), is the equity investment advisor. MMCI
and its affiliates have successfully invested in various newly-formed insurance
and reinsurance ventures, principally ACE Limited, XL Capital Ltd. (formerly
EXEL Limited; herein referred to as "XL"), Mid Ocean Limited and Centre
Reinsurance Holdings Limited. MMCI is also the investment advisor to The Trident
Partnership, L.P. ("Trident"), a $667.0 million investment fund capitalized by
institutional investors, including Marsh & McLennan, to invest selectively on a
global basis in the insurance and reinsurance industry.

 The stockholders of RCHI owning the largest number of shares of Common
Stock are XL, which owns 4,755,000 shares of Common Stock, or approximately
27.8% of the outstanding Common Stock (20.8% assuming the exercise of all
outstanding warrants and options to purchase Common Stock); and (ii) Marsh &
McLennan Risk Capital Holdings, Ltd. ("MMRCH"), which owns 1,395,625 shares of
Common Stock, or approximately 8.2% of the outstanding Common Stock, and
warrants to purchase 2,675,998 shares of Common Stock, which, if fully
exercised, would increase ownership of the Common Stock to 17.8%
assuming the exercise of all outstanding warrants and options to purchase Common
Stock.

 Pursuant to registration rights, the Company registered for sale
by Trident 1,750,000 shares of Common Stock owned by Trident under a shelf
registration statement which was declared effective by the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the "SEC") in September 1997. Under such registration
statement, Trident sold 1,500,000 shares of Common Stock, of which 1,000,000
were sold to XL. As of the date of this Report, Trident continues to own 250,000
shares of Common Stock and warrants to purchase 1,386,079 shares 


 -1-


of Common Stock, which represent, in the aggregate, approximately 7.1% of the
Common Stock assuming the exercise of all outstanding warrants and options to
purchase Common Stock.

 The offices are located at 20 Horseneck Lane, Greenwich,
Connecticut 06830, and its telephone number is (203) 862-4300.

 Business Strategy

 Risk Capital Reinsurance is a company that assumes risk and provides
capital within the worldwide insurance and reinsurance marketplace. This scope
of activity allows the Company to engage in at least three kinds of transactions
for its customers: reinsurance, other forms of financing, including direct
capital investments, and a combination of both sets of reinsurance and financial
tools into Integrated Solutions, highly customized packages of reinsurance
and financing techniques used together to create optimal solutions to the
 clients' needs. Using all of the tools available within the previously
separate disciplines of reinsurance and finance gives the Company the
opportunity to provide better and more flexible solutions to the risk
transfer/risk management/financial needs of the insurance industry. The Company
believes that the following elements assist it in implementing its business
strategy:

 o as a relatively new company, its distribution and overhead
 structure, as well as its organizational philosophy, is not
 encumbered with a traditional, territorial outlook; rather the
 Company is positioned to respond to the functional and global
 approach to the placement of insurance and reinsurance;

 o a small, centralized staff is well motivated by incentive
 compensation and is assisted by new information technology;

 o management seeks to use both the reinsurance underwriting
 capacity and its investment portfolio to provide increased capacity
 to insurers through the provision of reinsurance and other forms of
 capital;

 o the extensive experience and relationships of the 
 management and MMCI assist in identifying and capitalizing on
 underwriting and investment opportunities; and

 o the Company believes that attractive underwriting opportunities are
 presented to it in connection with the investment activities of the
 Company and MMCI as the equity investment advisor, and
 that investment opportunities arise from the underwriting
 activities.

Reinsurance Underwriting

 Strategy

 The principal components of the underwriting strategy are: 
identifying and committing the underwriting capacity to those types of
reinsurance where management believes that above average underwriting results
can be achieved; (ii) promoting client loyalty by providing a full range of
sophisticated risk management products closely tailored to its clients' needs;
(iii) conserving capacity to react to changing market conditions; (iv)
soliciting business primarily through reinsurance intermediaries; taking
advantage of underwriting opportunities that may arise in connection with the
 and equity investment activities; (vi) providing reinsurance to
insurers in which the Company invests, where appropriate; (vii) maintaining a
small, highly skilled, performance-motivated staff; and (viii) maintaining a low
expense structure.

 The Company seeks to write "large lines" (i.e., significant portions) on a
limited number of traditional and finite risk property and casualty reinsurance
treaties with a select number of insurance and reinsurance companies located
throughout the world (although the principal focus is on large United
States and European-based insurance and reinsurance companies) and with select
 syndicates. The Company may also provide credit enhancement, time and
distance and other risk management products, the nature and demand for which
will vary over time depending on existing capacity, profitability, tax,
regulatory and accounting aspects, and other circumstances pertaining to such
products.

 The Company focuses its efforts on treaty reinsurance. The Company
believes in the value of long-term mutually profitable treaty relationships. The
Company intends to continue to establish and cultivate such long-term
relationships with its reinsureds and believes it will be assisted therein by
the extensive experience of its management and MMCI. In addition, the Company
intends to write conservatively in terms of the 


 -2-


surplus capacity. The Company does not currently intend for its
premium-to-surplus ratio to exceed 1.0x, which represents an increase from the
 prior intention that its premium-to-surplus ratio not exceed 0.7x.
This increase is due to the fact that the mix includes a
higher proportion of quota share reinsurance and the average duration of the
 loss reserves is shorter than originally anticipated, which generally
presents less risk and less variability of results for the Company. However,
depending on business opportunities and the mix that may comprise
the portfolio, the Company may consider underwriting at a higher
premium-to-surplus ratio than 1.0x. Underwriting conservatively in terms of
surplus capacity will help enable the Company to maintain underwriting capacity
and flexibility. The Company believes that these objectives should, if realized,
place the Company in a position (without being overly dependent on the
underwriting cycle) to take advantage of underwriting opportunities that are
generally only available to well-capitalized reinsurers willing to underwrite
large lines.

 The Company participates at through the provision of whole account
quota share reinsurance to selected syndicates. The Company may
participate at in other ways, including through investments in 
corporate members and/or managing agents. (See Note 3 under XX
"Investment Information" of the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company).

 The Company determines the aggregate amount of reinsurance it writes based
upon market and other factors, including its assessment of underwriting
opportunities and its premium-to-surplus ratio at the time of determination. The
Company believes that insurance companies with certain identifiable
characteristics have historically performed better than the industry throughout
the underwriting cycle and believes that the experience of the 
management and MMCI assist in focusing on such companies for reinsurance and
investment opportunities. The Company believes that these characteristics
include underwriting performance, underwriting focus and discipline
(irrespective of the underwriting cycle), the ability to take advantage of
opportunities and changing circumstances in the insurance industry, low expense
ratio, specialization, the ability to take a lead role in structuring
substantial insurance and reinsurance contracts, substantial capacity and
effective use of reinsurance.

 The Company employs a disciplined, multi-disciplinary and highly
analytical approach to underwriting designed to specify premium that is intended
to be commensurate with the amount of its capital the Company estimates it is
placing at risk. As part of its underwriting process, the Company focuses on the
financial characteristics (including capital needs) and reputation of the
proposed cedent, the likelihood of establishing a long-term relationship with
the cedent, the geographic area in which the cedent does business, the 
market share, historical loss data for the cedent and, where available, for the
industry as a whole in the relevant regions in order to compare the 
historical loss experience to industry averages.

 Operations

 The mix on the basis of net premiums written for
1998, 1997 and 1996 is set forth in the following table:


 -3-


 Net Premiums Written
 (Dollars in millions)



 Years Ended December 31,
 1998 1997 1996
 Amount % Amount % Amount %
 
Core Business
 Property $33.7 14.4% $17.8 12.3% $19.4 27%
 Casualty 80.3 34.2 69.7 48.1 17.6 24
 Multi-Line 62.8 26.8 45.9 31.7 21.8 30
 Other 16.5 7.0 10.0 6.9 13.7 19
 Sub-Total Core Business $193.3 82.4% $143.4 99.0% $72.5 100.0%
 Specialty Business
 Aviation & Space $26.0 11.1% 
 Marine 14.4 6.1 $1.4 1.0%
 Surety 1.0 0.4 
 Sub-Total Specialty
 Business $41.4 17.6% $1.4 1.0%
 Total $234.7 100.0% $144.8 100.0% $72.5 100.0%
 

 The assumed and ceded premiums for the years ended December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996 were as follows:

 (In millions)
 Years Ended December 31,
 1998 1997 1996
 Assumed premiums written $260.5 $147.8 $73.7
Ceded premiums written 25.8 3.0 1.2
 Net premiums written $234.7 $144.8 $72.5
 
 In 1998, the net premiums written increased by 62% from $144.8
million in 1997 to $234.7 million in 1998. The premium growth resulted
from continued efforts in the two key strategies, the integration of
investment with reinsurance and the diversification into specialty classes of
reinsurance.

 The Company extended its reinsurance business into marine and aviation and
space underwriting in 1997, surety and fidelity underwriting in 1998, and
accident and health underwriting in 1999.

 For 1998, 1997 and 1996, approximately 32%, 28% and 30%, respectively, of
net premiums written were from non-United States clients, which are 
syndicates or are located in the United Kingdom or Continental Europe.
Approximately 32%, 29% and 5% of net premiums written in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively, were generated from companies in which the Company has invested or
committed to invest funds.

 Reinsurance is provided by the Company both on a quota share and excess of
loss basis. In 1998, quota share reinsurance and excess of loss reinsurance
amounted to 81% and 19%, respectively, of the net premiums written,
compared to 71% and 29%, respectively, during 1997 and (ii) 58% and 42%,
respectively, during 1996. In the future, the mix of quota share and excess of
loss reinsurance will depend on market conditions and other relevant factors and
cannot be predicted with accuracy. Depending on future conditions, the Company
may also write other types of reinsurance.

 Consistent with the strategy of writing a small number of large
treaties for its core business, three clients contributed approximately $74
million, or 32%, of the 1998 total net premiums written, with the
largest client contributing approximately 18% and the remaining two contributing
8% and 6%, respectively. The business written from the client that contributed
18% is part of an integrated transaction, and such business is subject to
renewal at the option for five years. In 1997, five clients
contributed 


 -4-


approximately $68 million, or 45%, of the total net premiums written,
with the largest client contributing approximately 18% and the remaining four
contributing from 5% to 8%.

 While not anticipated, the reduction or loss assumed from one
or more large clients could have a material adverse effect on the 
financial condition or results of operations to the extent not offset by new
business.

 Approximately $32.9 million, or 46%, of net premiums written for 1996
resulted from unearned premium portfolios and other non-recurring transactions.
This amount included $11.9 million of specialty premiums written from contracts
pursuant to which the Company reinsures a portion of one underlying policy for
multiple years. Such premiums will be earned over the multiple periods as the
exposures expire. In 1998 and 1997, there were no significant unearned premium
portfolios or other non-recurring transactions included in net premiums written.

 For a discussion of the in-force business at January 1, 1999,
see " Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations--General--In-Force Business."

Investments

 Strategy

 The investment goals are to support the reinsurance
activities and enhance the long-term profitability. The principal
components of the strategy to achieve these goals include: 
supporting short-term liquidity requirements through cash and fixed income
investments and, if necessary, through the sale of marketable equity securities
from the investment portfolio; (ii) investing a significant portion of
the assets in publicly traded and privately held equity securities
principally issued by insurance and reinsurance companies and companies
providing services to the insurance industry; (iii) identifying trends and
investment opportunities in the insurance industry that could lead to superior
returns; (iv) utilizing MMCI, an experienced insurance industry advisor, as
equity investment advisor; investing in insurers to which the Company
provides reinsurance, where appropriate; and (vi) when available, co-investing
with Trident, a dedicated insurance industry private equity fund, and an entity
to which MMCI also provides equity investment advisory services.

 The Company intends to invest a substantial portion of its investment
portfolio in equity securities, principally issued by insurance and reinsurance
companies and companies providing services to the insurance industry pursuant to
advice from MMCI. The Company does not believe that the provision of reinsurance
to insureds in which the Company invests should subject the Company to any
significant additional investment risk; however, the operating performance of an
insured in which the Company also invests could affect the Company more than an
entity in which the Company only invests or to which the Company only provides
reinsurance. The Company believes that, over the long term, a portfolio of
equity securities offers a greater potential return and growth in book value
than one comprised of fixed maturity securities, and that such a portfolio
should most effectively maximize long term stockholders' equity. The Company
also believes that an equity portfolio is appropriate for the Company because of
the long-tail nature of certain of the reinsurance business that the Company may
write and the conservative premium-to-surplus ratio.

 The Company entered into an equity investment advisory agreement (the
"Equity Advisory Agreement") with MMCI with respect to the management of the
 equity investment portfolio and a fixed income investment advisory
agreement (the "Fixed Income Advisory Agreement") with The Putnam Advisory
Company, Inc. ("Putnam"), a subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan, with respect to the
management of the fixed income securities and short-term cash
portfolios. Subject to investment guidelines determined from time to time by the
Investment/Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the
"Investment Committee"), MMCI and Putnam have the authority, among other things,
to buy, sell, retain or exchange the type of investments for which they have
been retained to manage. The Equity Advisory Agreement provides that, subject to
general guidelines established from time to time by the Investment Committee,
the Company may not invest in, purchase or dispose of equity securities unless
such investment, purchase or disposition (including the terms thereof) has been
approved by MMCI. Equity securities include common stocks, preferred stocks and
securities (including debt securities) convertible into or exercisable or
exchangeable for common stocks or preferred stocks, and any similar securities
or instruments, and any debt securities that were originally issued together
with any such securities or instruments. The Company may, however, make
strategic investments without the approval of MMCI. Strategic investments are
generally acquisitions (not being made for resale) of 


 -5-


securities of companies engaged in the reinsurance business or othes,
provided that the Company obtains control of such companies.

 Under the Equity Advisory Agreement, MMCI receives compensation on both
public securities owned by the Company (the "Public Portfolio") and private
equity securities owned by the Company (the "Private Portfolio"). With respect
to equity securities in the Public Portfolio, the Company pays an annual fee
equal to 0.35% of the daily average of the market prices of such securities.
With respect to the Private Portfolio, the Company pays an annual fee equal to
the sum of 1.5% per annum on the first $250,000,000 in carrying value of
securities in the Private Portfolio and (ii) 1.0% per annum on the carrying
value of such securities in the Private Portfolio that exceeds $250,000,000.
MMCI is also entitled to annual compensation equal to the excess, if any, of 
7.5% of cumulative net realized gains (as defined in the Equity Advisory
Agreement) on equity securities in the Private Portfolio over cumulative
incentive compensation previously paid in prior years on cumulative net realized
gains. The Equity Advisory Agreement provided for a minimum aggregate cash fee
to MMCI of $500,000 per annum through December 31, 1997. Fees incurred under the
Equity Advisory Agreement during fiscal years 1998, 1997 and 1996 were
approximately $2,700,000, $1,300,000 and $686,000, respectively.

 Under the Fixed Income Advisory Agreement, the Company pays annual fees,
based on the market value of assets included in the fixed income
portfolio, at the following rates: 0.35% per annum on the first $50,000,000,
0.30% per annum on the next $50,000,000, 0.20% per annum on the next
$100,000,000 and 0.15% per annum on the market value of assets that exceed
$200,000,000. For the short-term cash portfolio, the Company pays a fee equal to
0.15% per annum of the total monthly average market value of such portfolio.
Fees incurred under the Fixed Income Advisory Agreement during 1998, 1997 and
1996 were approximately $461,000, $493,000 and $547,000, respectively.

 MMCI serves as investment manager to Trident and, accordingly, certain
restrictions exist with respect to ability to make investment
recommendations to the Company with respect to investments which would be
suitable for both Trident and the Company. Under the Trident partnership
agreement, until the earlier of May 6, 2000 or the date on which at least 75% of
the aggregate capital of Trident has been drawn, neither MMCI nor any of its
affiliates may organize, or invest in, any new or existing risk assumption
entity unless Trident is first offered a reasonable opportunity to invest in
such entity. Such restrictions may also apply to the Company. Such limitation,
however, does not apply to investments in any such new entity where the total
invested capital of such entity does not exceed $10,000,000.

 Pursuant to the Trident partnership agreement, where Trident has elected
to make part, but not all, of the full investment otherwise available to it, the
Company may not be offered the opportunity to participate in such investment
unless Trident first offers at least all Trident partners with capital
commitments of at least $50,000,000 the right to participate in such additional
investment on a pro rata basis. Pursuant to the terms of the Equity Advisory
Agreement, MMCI has agreed that it will not invest in such opportunities, and
will not offer any such opportunities to its affiliates, without first offering
the Company an opportunity to make such investment.

 Fixed income investments will be used to provide shorter-term liquidity
and current returns. The fixed income securities portfolio generally will be
invested in high quality, liquid securities, including securities issued by
United States government agencies and United States government guaranteed
securities.

 In addition, the Company allocated in early 1998 approximately $35,000,000
for investing in a diversified portfolio of high yielding fixed maturity
investments managed by Miller Anderson & Sherrerd, LLP ("MAS"), a subsidiary of
Morgan Stanley & Co. Such amount was taken from funds that were previously
allocated for investing in short-term securities. MAS manages the portfolio
subject to investment guidelines established by the Investment Committee.

 Since a significant portion of the investment portfolio will
generally be equity securities issued by insurance and reinsurance companies and
companies providing services to the insurance industry, the portfolio will lack
industry diversification and will be particularly subject to the performance of
the insurance industry. Such performance will affect the market prices of a
significant portion of the investment portfolio and the income and
return on such investments, all of which could negatively affect the 
underwriting capacity. As the investment strategy is to invest a
significant portion of its investment portfolio in equity securities, its
investment income in any fiscal period may be smaller, as a percentage of
investments, and less predictable than other competitor reinsurance companies,
which tend to invest primarily in fixed income 


 -6-


investments. Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on investments may have
a greater effect on the results of operations or stockholders' equity
at the end of any fiscal period than its competitor reinsurance companies.

 Operations

 At December 31, 1998, cash and invested assets totaled approximately
$587.2 million, consisting of $120.9 million of cash and short-term investments,
$174.5 million of publicly traded fixed maturity investments, $154.7 million of
publicly traded equity securities and $137.1 million of privately held
securities.

 Note 3 under XX "Investment Information" of the accompanying
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company provides a table
summarizing the components of net investment income for the years ended December
31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.

 The investments on a consolidated basis at December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996 consisted of the following:



 (Dollars in thousands)
 December 31,
 1998 1997 1996
 Estimated Estimated Estimated
 Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent
 
Cash and short-term $120,846 20% $ 98,181 19% $106,352 27%
 Fixed maturities:
 U.S. government and
 government agencies 39,283 6 44,135 9 35,796 9
 Municipal bonds 45,273 8 37,637 7 60,041 15
 Corporate bonds 56,256 10 19,323 4 17,316 5
 Mortgage and asset-
 backed securities 33,532 6 30,487 6 26,709 7
 Foreign governments 196 -- 577 -- 519 --
 Sub-total, fixed
 maturities 174,540 30 132,159 26 140,381 36
Equity securities:
 Publicly traded 154,678 27 180,052 36 117,360 30
 Privately held 137,091 23 95,336 19 28,847 7
 Sub-total, equity
 securities 291,769 50 275,388 55 146,207 37
 Total $587,155 100% $505,728 100% $392,940 100%
 

 Guidelines established by the Company restrict the portion of the fixed
maturities portfolio that can be held in lower quality securities. At December
31, 1998, 89% of the fixed maturity and short-term investments were rated
investment grade by Investors Service, Inc. ("") or Standard &
 Corporation ("Standard & ") and had an average quality rating of AA
and an average duration of approximately 2.8 years.


 -7-


 Contractual maturities of the consolidated fixed maturity
securities are shown below. Expected maturities, which are best
estimates, will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have
the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment
penalties.

 (In thousands)
 December 31, 1998
 Estimated Amortized
 Fair Value Cost
 Available for sale:
 Due in one year or less $4,117 $4,106
 Due after one year through five years 55,113 54,293
 Due after five years through 10 years 47,709 48,468
 Due after 10 years 34,069 33,331
 Sub-total 141,008 140,198
 Mortgage and asset-backed securities 33,532 33,181
 Total $174,540 $173,379
 
 At December 31, 1998, the investment portfolio included
approximately $154.7 million of publicly traded equity securities and 17
investments in privately held securities totaling approximately $137.1 million,
with additional investment portfolio commitments in an aggregate amount of
approximately $10.4 million. At such date, all of the equity
investments were in securities issued by insurance and reinsurance companies or
companies providing services to the insurance industry.

 See Note 3 under XX "Investment Information" of the accompanying
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for certain
information regarding the publicly traded and privately held
securities and their carrying values, and commitments made by the Company
relating to its privately held securities. Over the long-term, the Company
intends to continue to allocate a substantial portion of its cash and short-term
investments into publicly traded and privately held equity securities, subject
to market conditions and opportunities in the marketplace.

 The Company has not invested in derivative financial instruments such as
futures, forward contracts, swaps, or options or other financial instruments
with similar characteristics such as interest rate caps or floors and fixed-rate
loan commitments. The portfolio includes market sensitive instruments,
such as mortgage-backed securities, which are subject to prepayment risk and
changes in market value in connection with changes in interest rates. The
 investments in mortgage-backed securities, which amounted to
approximately $33.5 million, or 6% of cash and invested assets at December 31,
1998, and $30.5 million, or 6% of cash and invested assets at December 31, 1997,
are classified as available for sale and are not held for trading purposes.

Marketing

 The Company obtains substantially all of its reinsurance business through
intermediaries representing the cedent in negotiations for the purchase of
reinsurance. The process of effecting a brokered reinsurance placement typically
begins when a cedent enlists the aid of an intermediary in structuring a
reinsurance program. Often the intermediary will consult with one or more lead
reinsurers as to the pricing and contract terms of the reinsurance protection
being sought. Once the cedent has approved the terms quoted by the lead
reinsurer, the intermediary will offer participation to qualified reinsurers
until the program is fully subscribed to by reinsurers at terms agreed upon by
all parties.

 By working through intermediaries to originate its business, the Company
need not maintain a substantial sales organization which, during periods of
reduced premium volume, would comprise a significant and non-productive part of
overhead. In addition, management believes that submissions from the
intermediary market are more numerous and diverse, including certain targeted
specialty coverages, than would be available through a salaried sales
organization and that the Company is able to exercise greater selectivity than
would be possible in dealing directly with cedents.


 -8-


 The Company pays commissions to intermediaries based on negotiated
percentages of the premium it writes. Direct writers of reinsurance typically
incur higher fixed costs that are included in their underwriting expenses.
Reinsurers using intermediaries can lower these costs during a downturn in the
market by writing less business and incurring lower brokerage costs.
Intermediaries do not generally have the authority to bind the Company with
respect to reinsurance agreements nor does the Company generally commit in
advance to accept any portion of the business that intermediaries submit to it.
Reinsurance business from any cedent, whether new or renewal, is generally
subject to acceptance by the Company.

 In 1998, affiliates of Marsh & McLennan, including Balis & Co., Inc.
("Balis"), Guy Carpenter & Company, Inc., Carpenter Bowring Ltd. and Cecar &
Jutheau, S.A. (collectively, "Marsh Affiliates"), (ii) the Aon Group ("Aon") and
(iii) E.W. Blanch Company ("E.W. Blanch") accounted for approximately 43.2%,
16.5% and 10.9%, respectively, of the assumed net premiums written. In
1997, Marsh Affiliates, (ii) Aon and (iii) E.W. Blanch accounted for
approximately 47.3%, 19.1% and 9.3%, respectively, of the assumed net
premiums written. In 1996, Marsh Affiliates, (ii) U.S. Reinsurance
Corporation, and (iii) Aon accounted for approximately 41%, 25%, and 21.9%,
respectively, of the assumed net premiums written. Loss of all or a
substantial portion of the business provided by any of these intermediaries
could have a short-term material adverse effect on the business and operations
of the Company. The Company does not believe that the loss of such business
would have a long-term material adverse effect due to the competitive
position within the broker reinsurance market and the availability 
from other intermediaries. The terms relating to the intermediary
arrangements with Marsh Affiliates have been negotiated on an -length
basis.

 In addition to investment opportunities arising from the activities of
MMCI as the equity investment advisor, the Company is provided with
investment opportunities by reinsurance brokers and traditional financing
sources, including investment banking firms, venture capital firms and other
banking and financing sources, both acting as principal investors and
intermediaries. Underwriting opportunities may arise from such sources in
connection with the investment activities as part of integrated
transactions.

Retrocessional Arrangements

 Reinsurance companies enter into retrocessional arrangements for many of
the same reasons primary insurers seek reinsurance, including reducing the
effect of individual or aggregate losses and increasing premium writings and
risk capacity without requiring additional capital.

 Given the current level of surplus, under its current
underwriting guidelines, the maximum net retention per risk for property
treaties and per occurrence for casualty treaties is generally $10,000,000.

 Other than the participation in "common account" retrocessional
arrangements for certain reinsurance treaties and as provided below for certain
classes of its specialty business, the Company does not maintain retrocessional
arrangements on a per risk or per treaty basis, or for the purpose of limiting
its exposure with respect to catastrophe losses or unusual accumulations of
losses resulting from a single occurrence involving two or more reinsured
policies. The Company may purchase retrocessional protection for catastrophic
losses before the commencement of the hurricane season. Common account
reinsurance arrangements are arrangements whereby the ceding company enters into
the reinsurance market and purchases a cover for the benefit of the ceding
company and the reinsurers on the reinsurance treaty. Common account
retrocessional arrangements reduce the effect of individual or aggregate losses
to all participating companies with respect to a reinsurance treaty, including
the cedent.

 In connection with the expansion into marine and aviation
reinsurance underwriting in 1997, the Company entered into excess of loss
retrocessional arrangements beginning in late 1997 covering aggregate exposures
on the marine and aviation business. Under the current
underwriting guidelines for 1999, retrocessional protection for marine business
is provided in an amount of $37 million in excess of a $3 million initial
retention, and additional co-participations, with the Company retaining a total
of approximately $8 million. For 1999, the Company is finalizing retrocessional
protection for aviation business in an amount of $65 million in excess of a $1
million initial retention, and additional co-participations, with the Company
retaining a total of approximately $5.4 million. There can be no assurances


 -9-


that such retrocessional protections will be sufficient to prevent the
occurrence of underwriting losses to the Company for such business.

 The Company will continue to evaluate its retrocessional requirements
periodically in relation to many factors, including its surplus, gross line
capacity and changing market conditions. Retrocessional arrangements do not
relieve the Company from its obligations to the insurers and reinsurers from
which it assumes business. The failure of retrocessionaires to honor their
obligations could result in losses to the Company. All retrocessionaires must
conform to the standards and must be specifically approved by the
 Security Committee, which consists of four members of XX
management, including the President. The evaluation process involves financial
analysis of current audited financial data and comparative analysis of such data
in accordance with guidelines established by the Company. Business may not be
conducted with retrocessionaires that are not approved by the Security
Committee.

 For additional discussion regarding the risk management
policies, see " Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations--Results of Operations--Risk Retention,""--Operating Costs
and Expenses" and "--Subsequent Underwriting Losses."

Claims Administration

 Claims are managed by the professional claims staff whose
responsibilities include the review of initial loss reports, creation of claim
files, determination of whether further investigation is required, establishment
and adjustment of case reserves and payment of claims. In addition, the claims
staff conducts comprehensive claims audits of both specific claims and overall
claims procedures at the offices of selected ceding companies. In certain
instances, as part of a comprehensive risk evaluation process, a claims audit
may be performed prior to assuming reinsurance business or entering into an
investment transaction.

Reserves for Unpaid Claims and Claims Expenses

 As a reinsurance company, the Company is required to establish and
maintain reserves to cover its estimated ultimate liability for unpaid claims
and claims expenses with respect to reported and unreported claims incurred as
of the end of each accounting period (net of estimated related salvage and
subrogation claims and retrocession recoverables (if any) of the Company). These
reserves are estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections at a
given time of what the Company expects the ultimate settlement and
administration of claims to cost based on facts and circumstances then known,
predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in claims severity and
other variable factors such as inflation and new concepts of liability. For
certain types of claims, it may over time be necessary to revise estimated
potential loss exposure and therefore the unpaid claims and claims
expense reserves. The inherent uncertainties of estimating claims and claims
expense reserves are exacerbated for reinsurers by the significant periods of
time (the "tail") that often elapse between the occurrence of an insured claim,
the reporting of the claim to the primary insurer and ultimately to the
reinsurer, and the primary payment of that claim and subsequent
indemnification by the reinsurer. As a consequence, actual claims and claims
expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from estimates reflected in
the reserves in its financial statements. The estimation of reserves
by new reinsurers, such as the Company, may be less reliable than the reserve
estimations of a reinsurer with an established volume and loss
history. To the extent reserves prove to be inadequate, the Company may have to
augment such reserves and incur a charge to earnings. Such a development, while
not anticipated, could result in a material charge to earnings or stockholders'
equity in future periods.

 When a claim is reported to an insurance company that cedes business to
the Company, its claims XX establish a "case reserve" for the estimated
amount of the ultimate payment. The estimate reflects the informed judgment of
such XX based on general insurance reserving practices and on the
experience and knowledge of such XX regarding the nature and value of the
specific type of claim. The Company, in turn, typically establishes a case
reserve when it receives a notice of a claim from the ceding company. Such
reserves are based on an independent evaluation by the Company, taking into
consideration coverage, liability, severity of injury or damage, jurisdiction,
the assessment of the ceding ability to evaluate and handle
the claim and the amount of reserves recommended by the ceding company. Case
reserves are adjusted periodically by the Company based on subsequent
developments and audits of ceding companies.

 In accordance with industry practice, the Company maintains incurred but
not reported ("IBNR") reserves. Such reserves are established to provide for
future case reserves and loss payments on incurred claims which have not yet
been reported to an insurer or reinsurer. In calculating its IBNR reserves, the
Company uses 


 -10-


generally accepted actuarial reserving techniques that take into account
quantitative loss experience data, together, where appropriate, with qualitative
factors. IBNR reserves are based on loss experience of the Company and the
industry, and are grouped both by class and by accident year. IBNR
reserves are also adjusted to take into account certain factors such as changes
in the volume written, reinsurance contract terms and conditions,
the mix , claims processing and inflation that can be expected to
affect the liability for losses over time.

 The reconciliation of claims and claims expense reserves for the years
ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and December 31, 1996 is as follows:



 (In thousands)
 Years Ended
 December 31,
 1998 1997 1996
 
At beginning of year:
 Gross claims and claims expense reserves $70,768 $20,770 --
 Reinsurance recoverables -- 522 --
 Net claims and claims expense reserves 70,768 20,248 --
Net claims and claims expenses incurred relating to:
 Current year 178,957 73,385 $24,079
 Prior year (2,832) 22 --
 Total 176,125 73,407 24,079
Net paid claims and claims expenses incurred relating to:
 Current year 41,910 13,649 3,831
 Prior year 18,794 9,238 --
 Total 60,704 22,887 3,831
At end of year:
 Net claims and claims expense reserves current year 186,189 70,768 20,248
 Reinsurance recoverables 30,468 -- 522
 Gross claims and claims expense reserves $216,657 $70,768 $20,770
 

 The Company believes that its exposure, if any, to environmental
impairment liability and asbestos-related claims is minimal since no business
has been written prior to 1996. The Company does not currently discount its
reserves to reflect the present value of claims that may eventually be paid.

 For a discussion of subsequent underwriting losses due to claims and
claims expenses related to reinsurance provided by the Company on satellite
risks and business produced by a certain managing underwriting agency, please
refer to " Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations--Results of Operations--Subsequent Underwriting Losses"
and Note 14 of the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
of the Company.

 Subject to the foregoing, the Company believes that the reserves for
claims and claims expenses are adequate to cover the ultimate cost of claims and
claims expenses incurred through December 31, 1998. The estimates will be
continuously reviewed and as adjustments to these reserves become necessary,
such adjustments will be reflected in current operations.

 The following table represents the development of generally accepted
accounting principles ("GAAP") balance sheet reserves for 1996 through 1998. The
top line of the table shows the reserves, net of reinsurance recoverables, at
the balance sheet date for each of the indicated years. This represents the
estimated amounts of net claims and claims expenses arising in all prior years
that are unpaid at the balance sheet date, including IBNR. The table also shows
the reestimated amount of the previously recorded reserve based on experience as
of the end of each succeeding year. The estimate changes as more information
becomes known about the frequency and severity of claims for individual years.
The "Cumulative Redundancy" represents the aggregate change in the estimates
over all prior years. The table also shows the cumulative amounts paid as of
successive years with respect to that reserve liability. The lower portion of
the table represents the claim development of the gross balance sheet reserves
for years 1996 and 1998.


 -11-


 With respect to the information in the table below, it should be noted
that each amount includes the effects of all changes in amounts for prior
periods. This table does not present accident or policy year development data.
Conditions and trends that have affected development of the liability in the
past may not necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it may not be
appropriate to extrapolate future reserve development based on the following
table. For additional discussion regarding the reserving and
retrocessional activities, see " Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Results of Operations--Risk
Retention," --Retrocessional Arrangements" and Notes 6 and 7 of the
accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company.

 Development of GAAP Reserves
 Cumulative Redundancy
 (in millions)



 Years Ended December 31,
 1996 1997 1998
 
Reserves for unpaid claims and claims adjustment
 expenses, net of reinsurance recoverables $20 $71 $186

Paid (cumulative) as of:
 One year later 13 31 
 Two years later 14 

Reserve reestimated as of:
 One year later 20 69 
 Two years later 19 

Cumulative redundancy $1 $2 
 
Percentage 5.0% 2.8% 

Gross reserve for claims and claims expenses $20 $71 $216
Reinsurance recoverable 0 0 (30)
 Net reserve for claims and claims expenses $20 $71 $186
 
Gross reestimated reserve $19 $69 
Reestimated reinsurance recoverable 0 0 
 
Net reestimated reserve $19 $69 

Gross reestimated redundancy $1 $2 
 



 -12-


Overview of the Reinsurance Industry

 Reinsurance is a form of insurance in which a reinsurer indemnifies a
primary insurer against part or all of the liability assumed by the primary
insurer under one or more insurance policies. Reinsurance is a contractual
agreement whereby an insurer or reinsurer (ceding company) remits a portion of
the premium it receives to a reinsurer (assuming company) as payment for the
assuming agreement to indemnify the ceding company for a portion of
the risk. Reinsurance provides insurers with several benefits which include the
following: reduction in net liability on individual risks, protection against
catastrophic losses and assistance in maintaining acceptable regulatory ratios
and additional underwriting capacity in that the primary insurer can accept
larger risks and can expand the book it writes at a faster rate than
would be possible without a corresponding increase in its capital and surplus
position. Reinsurance does not legally discharge the ceding company from its
liability with respect to its obligation to the insured.

 There are two principal types of reinsurance: treaty reinsurance and
facultative reinsurance. Treaty reinsurance is a contractual arrangement,
usually renewable annually, between a primary insurer and a reinsurer under
which the primary insurer must cede and the reinsurer must assume a specified
portion of a type or category of risks. Facultative reinsurance is the
reinsurance of individual risks. Rather than agreeing to reinsure all or a
portion of a class of risk, the reinsurer separately rates and underwrites each
risk. In the underwriting of treaty reinsurance, the reinsurer need not
separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed, as it must in the
underwriting of facultative reinsurance, and in general depends on the original
underwriting decisions made by the reinsured.

 Both facultative and treaty reinsurance can be written on both an excess
of loss and a quota share basis. In quota share reinsurance, the reinsurer
assumes from the reinsured a percentage specified in the treaty of each risk in
the reinsured class of risk. Premiums that the reinsured pays to the reinsurer
are proportional to the portion of the risk that the reinsurer assumes, and the
reinsurer generally pays the reinsured a ceding commission to reimburse the
reinsured for the expenses incurred in obtaining the business. The ceding
commission may also contain a profit component. In quota share reinsurance, the
reinsurer may receive the benefit of common account reinsurance and, therefore,
the reinsurer will have credit risk with respect to the underlying reinsurers
providing such common account reinsurance. In excess of loss treaty reinsurance,
the reinsurer indemnifies the reinsured for a portion of the losses on
underlying policies which exceed a specified loss retention amount up to an
amount per loss specified in the treaty. Premiums that the reinsured pays to the
reinsurer for excess of loss coverage are not directly proportional to the
premiums that the reinsured receives because the reinsurer does not assume a
proportionate risk. The reinsurer generally does not pay any commission to the
reinsured in connection with excess of loss reinsurance. Excess of loss treaty
reinsurance can, in turn, be written on a per risk or catastrophe basis. Per
risk excess of loss reinsurance protects the reinsured against a loss resulting
from a single risk or location. Catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance protects
a reinsured from an accumulation or large number of related losses resulting
from a variety of risks which may occur in a given catastrophe and hence is a
highly volatile business.

 Excess of loss reinsurance is often written in layers, with one reinsurer
taking the risk from the primary retention layer up to a specified
amount, at which point another reinsurer takes over the excess liability or the
excess liability reverts back to the primary insurer. The reinsurer taking on
the risk just above the primary retention layer is said to write
"working" or "low layer" excess of loss reinsurance. A loss that reaches just
beyond the primary retention layer will create a loss for the lower
layer reinsurer, but not for the reinsurers on higher layers. Losses incurred in
low layer reinsurance tend to be more predictable than those in high layers due
to the availability of greater actuarial data.

 Excess of loss and pro rata reinsurance are priced differently because the
probability of loss is different for the two types of coverage. Premiums that
the ceding company pays to the reinsurer for excess of loss reinsurance are not
directly proportional to the premiums that the ceding company receives because
the reinsurer does not assume a proportionate risk. In contrast, premiums that
the ceding company pays to the reinsurer for pro rata reinsurance are
proportional to the premiums that the ceding company receives, consistent with
the proportional sharing of risk. In addition, in pro rata reinsurance the
reinsurer generally pays the ceding company a ceding commission. The ceding
commission generally is based on the ceding cost of acquiring the
business being reinsured (commissions, premium taxes, assessments and
miscellaneous administrative expense) and also may include a profit factor.


 -13-


 Since facultative reinsurance, unlike treaty reinsurance, usually involves
the assumption of selected, individual risks and is sold in separate
transactions, facultative reinsurance is typically priced for higher profit
margins than treaty business. However, the losses may be higher for
facultative business because the reinsurer may assume a higher potential
liability and because the risks involved may be more volatile. In addition,
underwriting expenses and, in particular, XX costs, are higher on
facultative business because each risk is individually underwritten and
administered. Facultative reinsurance is normally purchased by insurance
companies for individual risks not covered by their reinsurance treaties, for
excess losses on risks covered by their reinsurance treaties, and for unusual
risks. The demand for facultative reinsurance is typically inversely related to
the supply of treaty reinsurance.

 Reinsurers may also purchase reinsurance, known as retrocessional
reinsurance, to cover their own risk exposure. Reinsurance companies enter into
retrocessional agreements for reasons similar to those that cause ceding
companies to purchase reinsurance.

 The reinsurance market has two basic segments: reinsurers which primarily
obtain their business directly from insurers and other reinsurers ("direct
writers"), and those which, like the Company, primarily obta through
reinsurance intermediaries or brokers.

Competition

 The property and casualty reinsurance business is highly competitive.
Competition is based on many factors, including the perceived overall financial
strength of the reinsurer, premiums charged, contract terms and conditions,
services offered, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of
claims payment and reputation and experience. The Company, in pursuing its
investment strategy, also competes with venture capitalists, buyout funds,
merchant banking firms, investment banking firms and other banking and financing
sources for investment opportunities in publicly traded and privately held
equity securities. Competition is based on many factors, including the ability
to identify trends and investment opportunities that could lead to superior
returns, financial and XX resources of the investor, the ability to
negotiate investment terms effectively, and the ability of the investor to
provide expertise and advice to companies targeted for investment.

 The Company competes in the United States and international reinsurance
markets and, in the United States markets, competes with both United States and
internationally domiciled reinsurers. The competitors include
independent reinsurance companies, subsidiaries or affiliates of established
worldwide insurance companies, reinsurance departments of certain primary
insurance companies and domestic and international underwriting syndicates, many
of which have substantially greater financial resources than the Company.
Competitors include direct writers and those that, like the Company, write
primarily through reinsurance intermediaries.

 Significant competitors of the Company in the direct market include
American Re-Insurance Company, Employers Reinsurance Corporation, General
Reinsurance Corporation and Swiss Reinsurance Company. Significant competitors
of the Company in the intermediary/broker market include Constitution
Reinsurance Corporation, Everest Reinsurance Company, GE Capital Reinsurance
Company, NAC Reinsurance Company, PMA Reinsurance Corporation, The St. Paul
Companies, Inc., TIG Reinsurance Corporation, Transatlantic Reinsurance Company,
Trenwick America Reinsurance Corporation, Underwriters Reinsurance Company and
Zurich Re North America. In addition, the Company competes with 
syndicates and certain companies operating in the London reinsurance market. The
Company may also face competition from other market participants that determine
to devote greater amounts of capital to the types written by the
Company.

 The Company believes that the reinsurance industry is consolidating, and
the largest reinsurers are writing a larger proportion of total industry
premiums as ceding companies place increasing importance on size and financial
strength in the selection of reinsurers.

 The Company may also compete with new market entrants, including possibly
other companies organized by (or that may, in the future, be organized by)
certain of the initial investors, including MMRCH, XL and Trident,
their affiliates or entities that they advise or in which such initial
investors, their affiliates or entities that they advise, have (or may, in the
future, have) significant investments. In addition, affiliates of MMCI engage in
activities in support of their ongoing business strategies, which activities may
compete with those of the Company.


 -14-


 Insurance ratings are used by insurers and reinsurance intermediaries as
an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of
reinsurers. In addition, a ceding own rating may be adversely affected
by the lack of a rating of its reinsurer. A.M. Best is generally considered to
be a significant rating agency with respect to the evaluation of insurance and
reinsurance companies. In May 1998, the Company was assigned an initial rating
of "A (Excellent)" by A.M. Best. This rating is assigned by A.M. Best to
companies which A.M. Best considers to have, on balance, excellent financial
strength, operating performance and market profile when compared to established
standards and a strong ability to meet their ongoing obligations to
policyholders. A.M. ratings reflect their independent opinion of the
financial strength, operating performance and market profile of an insurer
relative to standards established by A.M. Best, and are not a warranty of an
 current or future ability to meet its obligations to policyholders.

 In March 1997, Demotech, Inc., an Ohio-based ratings firm ("Demotech"),
issued to Risk Capital Reinsurance a Financial Stability Rating of A double
prime Unsurpassed, highest financial stability rating.

 The Company cannot predict whether the ratings assigned to Risk Capital
Reinsurance by A.M. Best and Demotech will increase Risk Capital 
ability to compete in the reinsurance markets in which it operates.

Insurance Regulation

 General

 The terms and conditions of reinsurance agreements generally are not
subject to regulation by any governmental authority with respect to rates or
policy terms. This contrasts with primary insurance policies and agreements, the
rates and terms of which generally are closely regulated by state insurance
regulators. As a practical matter, however, the rates charged by primary
insurers do have an effect on the rates that can be charged by reinsurers.

 State Regulation

 Risk Capital Reinsurance, in common with other insurers, is subject to
extensive governmental regulation and supervision in the various states and
jurisdictions in which it transacts business. The laws and regulations of the
State of Nebraska, the domicile of Risk Capital Reinsurance, have the most
significant impact on its operations. This regulation and supervision is
designed to protect policyholders rather than investors and relates to, among
other things, the standards of solvency which must be met and maintained, the
nature of and limitations on investments, restrictions on the size of risk which
may be insured under a single policy, and reserves and provisions for unearned
premiums, losses and other purposes.

 Some states are considering legislative proposals which would authorize
the establishment of an interstate compact concerning various aspects of insurer
insolvency proceedings, including interstate governance of receiverships and
guaranty funds. As of March 1999, such legislation had been adopted by three
states, including Illinois, Michigan and Nebraska.

 Insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of
insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating
to the financial condition of companies and other matters. The Nebraska
Insurance Department recently completed an examination of Risk Capital
 records, accounts and business affairs for the period October 1995
through December 31, 1997. The Nebraska Department issued its final report for
such examination on March 15, 1999, which report included no material findings.
Prior to such examination, Risk Capital Reinsurance had not been examined by the
Nebraska Insurance Department other than in connection with the receipt of its
insurance license in November 1995.

 Credit for Reinsurance

 A primary insurer ordinarily will enter into a reinsurance agreement only
if it can obtain credit for the reinsurance ceded on its statutory financial
statements. In general, credit for reinsurance is allowed in the following
circumstances: if the reinsurer is licensed in the state in which the
primary insurer is domiciled and, in some instances, in certain states in which
the primary insurer is licensed; (ii) if the reinsurer is an "accredited" or
otherwise approved reinsurer in the state in which the primary insurer is
domiciled and, in some instances, in certain states in which the primary insurer
is licensed; (iii) in some instances, if the reinsurer is 


 -15-


domiciled in a state that is deemed to have substantially similar credit for
reinsurance standards as the state in which the primary insurer is domiciled and
 meets certain financial requirements; or (iv) if none of the above apply, to
the extent that the reinsurance obligations of the reinsurer are collateralized
appropriately, typically through the posting of a letter of credit for the
benefit of the primary insurer or the deposit of assets into a trust fund
established for the benefit of the primary insurer. Therefore, as a result of
the requirements relating to the provision of credit for reinsurance, the
Company is indirectly subject to certain regulatory requirements imposed by
jurisdictions in which ceding companies are licensed.

 As of March 24, 1999, Risk Capital Reinsurance is licensed or is an
accredited or otherwise approved reinsurer in 43 states as follows: Alaska,
Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii,
Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan,
Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska (state of domicile), Nevada,
New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota,
Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South
Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin and
Wyoming. Risk Capital Reinsurance also holds a Certificate of Authority from the
United States Treasury Department for surety business. In addition, Risk Capital
Reinsurance is an authorized reinsurer in the Argentine Republic. Risk Capital
Reinsurance intends to apply for licenses or reinsurance authorizations in the
remainder of the states as applicable requirements are met. If necessary, and
until such time that all remaining reinsurance authorizations are granted, Risk
Capital Reinsurance intends to appropriately collateralize its reinsurance
obligations. The Company cannot predict if and when such authorizations will be
granted.

 Investment Limitations

 The Nebraska insurance laws contain rules governing the types and amounts
of investments that are permissible for Nebraska-domiciled insurers, including
Risk Capital Reinsurance. These rules are designed to ensure the safety and
liquidity of an investment portfolio. Investments in excess of
statutory guidelines do not constitute "admitted assets" (i.e., assets permitted
by the Nebraska insurance laws to be included in a domestic statutory
financial statements), unless special approval is obtained from the Nebraska
Director of Insurance (the "Nebraska Director"). Non-admitted assets do not
count for the purposes of various financial ratios and tests, including those
governing solvency and the ability to write premiums. An insurer may hold an
investment authorized under more than one provision of the Nebraska insurance
laws under the provision of its choice (except as otherwise expressly provided
by law).

 Subject to the "basket" clause described below, the maximum amount of an
 authorized investments in preferred stock and common stock of
insurance companies for calculation of admitted assets in Nebraska is the lesser
of the amount by which admitted assets exceed required capital and
liabilities or (ii) 50% of policyholders surplus. At December 31, 1998, such
amounts for Risk Capital Reinsurance were $353.7 million and $179.4 million,
respectively. Stock of insurance companies is valued for these purposes at cost.
Unrealized appreciation of such securities does not count for the purpose of
determining the percentage of certain admitted assets attributable to insurance
stock investments.

 While there is a concentration restriction which precludes investment of
more than 5% of the admitted assets in any one issuer, this
restriction does not apply to investments in common and preferred stock of other
insurers whose XX debt obligations have received a designation of 1 or 2
from the Securities Valuation Office (the "SVO") of the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners (the "NAIC"). Designations assigned by the SVO range
from class 1 to class 6, with class 1 as the highest quality rating. Generally,
SVO designations of 1 and 2 are comparable to investment grade ratings by
 and Standard & , and SVO designations of 3 to 6 are comparable to
below investment grade ratings by such rating organizations.

 Other concentration restrictions preclude investment of more than 3%, 2%,
1% or 1/2% of an admitted assets in any one person whose XX debt
obligations have received a designation of 3, 4, 5 or 6, respectively, from the
SVO. In addition, an investments in debt obligations having a 4, 5 or
6 designation from the SVO may not exceed 4%, 2% or 1%, respectively, of the
 admitted assets. Aggregate investments in obligations having any
combination of 3, 4, 5 and 6 designations from the SVO may not exceed, in the
aggregate, 15% of the admitted assets.

 An investments in equity interests entities (e.g.,
corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies and partnerships,
trusts, joint ventures, etc.; including insurance companies) that are created or
existing under the laws of the United States or Canada are also authorized under
the Nebraska insurance laws, 


 -16-


provided that, in the case of an investment in a business entity other than an
insurance company, the insurer may not generally invest in more than 10% of
the total equity interests of such entity and (ii) the investment will be
subject to the concentration restrictions described above. In the case of an
investment in a business entity that is a corporation, such entity must also
meet certain requirements regarding retained earnings and dividend payment
history.

 Authorized foreign investments by an insurer in foreign jurisdictions
whose sovereign debt has a designation of 1, 2 or 3 from the SVO may not exceed,
in the aggregate, 15% of the admitted assets. Investments may not be
made in foreign jurisdictions whose sovereign debt has a designation of 4, 5 or
6 from the SVO. In addition, authorized foreign investments denominated in
foreign currencies may not exceed, in the aggregate, 5% of the 
admitted assets. Authorized foreign investments must also have a minimum
designation of 1 or 2 from the SVO (or corresponding investment grade rating
from any rating organization recognized by the SVO, including and
Standard & ), and must be aggregated with investments of the same kinds
and classes made under the Nebraska insurance laws (except for the "basket"
clause) for purposes of determining compliance with the limitations contained in
other sections.

 Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other limitations under the Nebraska
insurance laws, there is a "basket" clause under which investments "not
otherwise authorized" are permitted up to a maximum of the greater of the
lesser of 25% of the amount by which admitted assets exceed total
liabilities, excluding capital, or 5% of admitted assets (investments
authorized under this subsection of the "basket" clause may not include
obligations with SVO designations of 3, 4, 5 or 6), or (ii) that portion of
policyholders surplus which is in excess of 50% of the annual net
written premiums. Derivative instruments otherwise authorized under the Nebraska
insurance laws may not be authorized under the "basket" clause. As of December
31, 1998, the "basket" clause would have allowed Risk Capital Reinsurance to
make investments not otherwise authorized under the Nebraska insurance laws up
to a maximum amount of $241.3 million.

 The Nebraska insurance laws provide that the Nebraska Director may waive
any of the legal investment limitations upon application by an insurer. The
Nebraska Director is required to consider the following factors in determining
whether to approve or disapprove any such application: the credit risk
quality of the proposed investment; (ii) the liquidity of the proposed
investment and of the entire investment portfolio; (iii) the extent of
the diversification of the investment portfolio; (iv) the yield of the
proposed investment; the reasonableness of the policyholders
surplus in relation to the outstanding liabilities and financial
needs; and (vi) any other relevant considerations. From time to time, it may be
necessary for the Company to seek waivers from the Nebraska Director of the
legal investment limitations imposed by the Nebraska insurance laws; no
assurances can be given that such waivers can be obtained.

 States in which Risk Capital Reinsurance may become licensed or authorized
may also seek to impose their legal investment laws on Risk Capital Reinsurance.
Such laws vary from state to state and may not permit investments that are
permitted under Nebraska law. To the extent that any state disallows an
investment that is permitted under Nebraska law, Risk Capital 
statutory surplus reflected in its statutory financial statements filed in such
state would be reduced by the amount of such disallowance.

 Holding Company Acts

 State insurance holding company statutes provide a regulatory apparatus
which is designed to protect the financial condition of domestic insurers
operating within a holding company system. All holding company statutes require
disclosure and, in some instances, prior approval of significant transactions
between the domestic insurer and an affiliate. Such transactions typically
include sales, purchases, exchanges, loans and extensions of credit, and
investments between an insurance company and its affiliates, involving in the
aggregate certain percentages of a admitted assets or policyholders
surplus, or dividends that exceed certain percentages of the surplus
or income.

 The Nebraska insurance laws and the insurance laws of other states
generally regard an issuer as an "affiliate" of one of its investors if it is
controlled by, or is under common control with, the investor. Generally,
"control" means the possession of the power to direct or cause the direction of
the management and policies of the issuer, whether through the ownership of
voting securities, by contract or otherwise. Control is generally presumed to
exist if the investor, directly or indirectly, owns or controls 10% or more of
the voting securities of the issuer. The Nebraska insurance laws and the
insurance laws of other states generally allow investors to rebut this
presumption by filing a "disclaimer" that sets forth the bases for disclaiming
affiliation. In certain states, 


 -17-


such as Nebraska, a disclaimer is deemed effective once filed unless it is
specifically disallowed by the respective insurance department (after the
parties in interest have been provided notice and an opportunity to be heard).
In other states, a disclaimer must be specifically approved by the relevant
insurance department. In cases where Risk Capital Reinsurance may be presumed to
"control," and therefore deemed an affiliate of, an insurer under applicable
holding company statutes, Risk Capital Reinsurance intends to continue to file
disclaimers with respect to such insurer unless prevented by the surrounding
circumstances.

 Typically, the holding company statutes also require each of the insurance
subsidiaries periodically to file information with state insurance regulatory
authorities, including information concerning capital structure, ownership,
financial condition and general business operations. Under the terms of
applicable state statutes, any person or entity desiring to acquire control of a
domestic insurer is required first to obtain approval of the applicable state
insurance regulator.

 Liquidation of Insurers

 The liquidation of insurance companies, including reinsurers, is generally
conducted pursuant to state insurance law. In the event of the liquidation of
Risk Capital Reinsurance, such liquidation would be conducted by the Nebraska
Director as the domestic receiver of the properties, assets and business of Risk
Capital Reinsurance. Liquidators located in other states (known as ancillary
liquidators) in which Risk Capital Reinsurance conducts business may have
jurisdiction over assets or properties located in such states under certain
circumstances. Under Nebraska law, all creditors of Risk Capital Reinsurance,
including but not limited to reinsureds under its reinsurance agreements, would
be entitled to payment of their allowed claims in full from the assets of Risk
Capital Reinsurance before RCHI, as a stockholder of Risk Capital Reinsurance,
would be entitled to receive any distribution therefrom.

 Regulation of Dividends and Other Payments from Insurance Subsidiaries

 As an insurance holding company, RCHI will be largely dependent on
dividends and other permitted payments from Risk Capital Reinsurance to meet its
obligations. The ability of Risk Capital Reinsurance to pay dividends or make
other distributions is subject to insurance regulatory limitations of Nebraska,
the state in which Risk Capital Reinsurance is domiciled. The Nebraska insurance
laws provide that dividends or other distributions, together with other
dividends or distributions paid during the preceding 12 months, may not exceed
the greater of 10% of statutory surplus as of the preceding December 31 or
(ii) statutory net income from operations for the preceding calendar year not
including realized capital gains. Net income (exclusive of realized capital
gains) not previously distributed or paid as dividends from the preceding two
calendar years may be carried forward for dividend and distribution purposes.
Any proposed dividend or distribution in excess of such amount is called an
"extraordinary" dividend or distribution and may not be paid until either it has
been approved, or a 30-day waiting period has passed during which it has not
been disapproved, by the Nebraska Director. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Nebraska insurance laws provide that any distribution that is a dividend may be
paid by Risk Capital Reinsurance only out of earned surplus arising from its
business, which is defined as unassigned funds (surplus) as reported in the
statutory financial statement filed by Risk Capital Reinsurance with the
Nebraska Insurance Department for the most recent year. In addition, the
Nebraska insurance laws also provide that any distribution that is a dividend
and that is in excess of Risk Capital unassigned funds (exclusive
of any surplus arising from unrealized capital gains or revaluation of assets)
will be deemed an "extraordinary" dividend subject to the foregoing
requirements. See Note 10 of the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company.

 The Nebraska insurance laws also require that the statutory surplus of
Risk Capital Reinsurance following any dividend or distribution be reasonable in
relation to its outstanding liabilities and adequate to its financial needs. The
Nebraska Director is required to apply certain factors in determining the
adequacy of an surplus, including, among other things, the size of the
insurer, the extent to which the insurer is diversified, the number
and size of risks insured by each line , the extent of geographical
dispersion of insured risks and the reinsurance program, and characteristics of
the investment portfolio. In addition, the Nebraska insurance laws require that
each insurer give notice to the Nebraska Director of all dividends and other
distributions within five business days following declaration thereof and that
any such dividend or other distribution may not be paid within 10 business days
of such notice (the "Notice Period") unless for good cause shown the Nebraska
Director has approved such payment within the Notice Period.


 -18-


 Insurance Regulatory Information System Ratios

 The Insurance Regulatory Information System ("IRIS") was developed
by a committee of state insurance regulators and is intended primarily to assist
state insurance departments in executing their statutory mandates to oversee the
financial condition of insurance companies operating in their respective states.
IRIS identifies 11 industry ratios and specifies "usual values" for each ratio.
Departure from the usual values of the ratios can lead to inquiries from
individual state insurance commissioners as to certain aspects of an insurer. For the year ended December 31, 1998, Risk Capital 
results were within the usual values for eight of the 11 ratios. The "change in
writings" ratio was outside the usual value as a result of continued
efforts in two key strategies, the integration of investment with reinsurance
and the diversification into specialty classes of reinsurance. The "investment
yield" ratio was outside the usual value primarily due to Risk Capital
 investment strategy of investing a significant portion of its
investment portfolio in equity securities, which generally yield less current
investment income than fixed maturity investments. The "two year operating
ratio" was outside the usual value due to the combined impact of 
"investment yield" ratio (described above) and the 1998 statutory combined ratio
of 116.4%. The 1998 statutory combined ratio was adversely affected
during the second half of the year by underwriting results from the 
satellite business, casualty reinsurance provided by the Company on business
produced by a certain managing underwriting agency and a property loss on a
finite risk treaty. While the Company believes that it is taking adequate steps
to reduce its exposure to losses from this business, there can be no assurances
that such business will not continue to generate additional underwriting losses
in the future or that significant loss activity will not develop from other
areas of the underwriting or other activities. For a related
discussion of subsequent underwriting losses due to claims and claims expenses
related to reinsurance provided by the Company on satellite risks and business
produced by the managing underwriting agency, please refer to "
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations--Results of Operations--Subsequent Underwriting Losses" and Note 14
of the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the
Company.

 Accreditation

 The NAIC has instituted its Financial Regulatory Accreditation Standards
Program ("FRASP") in response to federal initiatives to regulate the business of
insurance. FRASP provides a set of standards designed to establish effective
state regulation of the financial condition of insurance companies. Under FRASP,
a state must adopt certain laws and regulations, institute required regulatory
practices and procedures, and have adequate XX to enforce such items in
order to become an "accredited" state. If a state was not accredited by January
1, 1994, accredited states are not able to accept certain financial examination
reports of insurers prepared solely by the regulatory agency in such
unaccredited state. The State of Nebraska is accredited under FRASP; however,
there can be no assurance that it or any other state will remain accredited.

 Risk-Based Capital Requirements

 In order to enhance the regulation of insurer solvency, the NAIC adopted
in December 1993 a formula and model law to implement risk-based capital
requirements for property and casualty insurance companies. Effective January 1,
1994, Nebraska adopted risk-based capital legislation for property and casualty
companies which is similar to the NAIC risk-based capital requirements. These
risk-based capital requirements are designed to assess capital adequacy and to
raise the level of protection that statutory surplus provides for policyholder
obligations. The risk-based capital model for property and casualty insurance
companies measures three major areas of risk facing property and casualty
insurers: underwriting, which encompasses the risk of adverse loss
developments and inadequate pricing; (ii) declines in asset values arising from
credit risk; and (iii) declines in asset values arising from investment risks.
Insurers having less statutory surplus than required by the risk-based capital
calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending
on the level of capital inadequacy. Equity investments in common stock typically
are valued at 85% of their market value under the risk-based capital guidelines.
For equity investments in an insurance company affiliate, the risk-based capital
requirement for the equity securities of such affiliate would generally be the
 proportionate share of the risk-based capital requirement.
For a discussion of "affiliate" status under the insurance laws, see
--Insurance Regulation--Holding Company Acts."

 The surplus (as calculated for statutory annual statement
purposes) is well above the risk-based capital thresholds that would require
either company or regulatory action.


 -19-


 Regulation of Certain Reinsurance Intermediaries

 Certain states, including Nebraska, have adopted legislation or regulation
that, in effect, places additional requirements upon insurance and reinsurance
intermediaries and brokers when, on behalf of an insured, they place business
with an insurance or reinsurance company that is affiliated with such
intermediary or broker. While the Company believes that there is no such
affiliation between the Company and reinsurance intermediaries that may be
affiliated with Marsh & McLennan, no assurances can be given that other persons
(including such intermediaries) may not take a contrary position. While the
Company believes that compliance with such regulations would not be burdensome
upon an intermediary or broker, no assurances can be given as to whether a
broker or intermediary would decide to place or continue to place business with
the Company if such regulations were viewed to be applicable.

 Federal Regulation

 Although the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance
or reinsurance industries, federal initiatives often affect the insurance
business in a variety of ways. Although state regulation remains the dominant
form of regulation, the federal government has shown increasing concern over the
adequacy of state regulation.

 It is not possible to predict the future impact of any of these or other
possible laws or regulations on Risk Capital capital and
operations, and such laws or regulations could materially adversely affect its
business.

 Legislative and Regulatory Proposals

 From time to time various regulatory and legislative changes have been
proposed in the insurance and reinsurance industry, some of which could have an
effect on reinsurers. Among the proposals that have in the past been or are at
present being considered are the possible introduction of federal regulation in
addition to, or in lieu of, the current system of state regulation of insurers
and proposals in various state legislatures (some of which proposals have been
enacted) to conform portions of their insurance laws and regulations to various
model acts adopted by the NAIC. The Company is unable to predict whether any of
these laws and regulations will be adopted, the form in which any such laws and
regulations would be adopted, or the effect, if any, these developments would
have on the operations and financial condition of the Company.

XX Management

 The XX management team consists of:

Name Age Position
 --- 
Mark D. Mosca 45 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Robert Clements 66 Chairman and Director
Peter A. Appel 37 Managing Director, General Counsel and Secretary
Paul J. Malvasio 52 Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer and
 Treasurer

 Mark D. Mosca was elected President and Director of RCHI in June 1995 and
Chief Executive Officer of RCHI in March 1998, and President, Chief Executive
Officer and Director of Risk Capital Reinsurance in August 1995, and has served
as acting Chief Underwriting Officer of Risk Capital Reinsurance since March
1999. Prior to June 1995, he was XX Vice President and Chief Underwriting
Officer of Zurich Reinsurance Centre Holdings, Inc. since the completion of its
initial public offering in May 1993. Prior thereto, Mr. Mosca served as a Vice
President of NAC Re Corporation ("NAC Re"), where he was manager of the Treaty
Division since February 1986. From 1975 to 1986, Mr. Mosca was employed by
General Reinsurance Corporation where he was a Vice President. Mr. Mosca holds
an A.B. degree from Harvard University.

 Robert Clements was elected Chairman and Director of RCHI at its formation
in March 1995 and Chairman and Director of Risk Capital Reinsurance in September
1995. He is currently an advisor to MMCI with whom he served as Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer from January 1994 to March 1996. Prior thereto, he
served as President of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. since 1992, having been
Vice Chairman during 1991. He was Chairman of J&H Marsh & McLennan, Incorporated
(formerly Marsh & McLennan, Incorporated), a 


 -20-


subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., from 1988 until March 1992. He
joined Marsh & McLennan, Ltd., a Canadian subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan
Companies, Inc., in 1959. Mr. Clements is a director of XL and Hiscox plc. He is
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of The College of Insurance and a member of
Rand Corp. Council.

 Peter A. Appel has been a Managing Director, General Counsel and Secretary
of both RCHI and Risk Capital Reinsurance since November 1995. From September
1987 to November 1995, Mr. Appel practiced law with the New York firm of Willkie
Farr & Gallagher, where he was a partner from January 1995. He holds an A.B.
degree from Colgate University and a law degree from Harvard University.

 Paul J. Malvasio has been a Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer of both RCHI and Risk Capital Reinsurance since September 1995 and a
Director of Risk Capital Reinsurance since November 1995. Prior to that time, he
was XX Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NAC Re since the
completion of NAC initial public offering in February 1986. From 1967 to
1986, Mr. Malvasio was employed by the public accounting firm of Coopers &
Lybrand, where he was an audit partner from October 1979. Mr. Malvasio is a
certified public accountant and holds a B.B.A. degree in Accounting from St.
Francis College.

Employees

 At March 24, 1999, the Company employed a total of 40 full-time employees.
The Company will continue to increase its staff over time commensurate with the
expansion of operations. The employees are not represented by a labor
union and the Company believes that its employee relations are good.


 -21-


 GLOSSARY OF SELECTED INSURANCE TERMS

Admitted assets Assets permitted by state law to be
 included as "assets" in an insurance
 annual statement.

Annual Statement A report that an insurance company must
 file annually with the state insurance
 commissioner in its domiciliary state
 and each other state in which it does
 business. The statement shows the
 current status of reserves, expenses,
 assets, total liabilities and investment
 portfolio.

Assume To take from an insurer or reinsurer (a
 ceding company) all or part of a risk
 underwritten by such person, along with
 the related premiums, losses and
 expenses.

Attachment point The amount of loss (per occurrence or in
 the aggregate, as the case may be) above
 which excess of loss coverage becomes
 operative.

Broker market reinsurer A reinsurer that markets and sells
 reinsurance through brokers rather than
 through its own employees.

Case reserves Loss reserves established with respect
 to individual reported claims.

Casualty insurance Insurance which is primarily concerned
 with the losses caused by injuries to
 third persons (in other words, persons
 other than the policyholder) and the
 legal liability imposed on the insured
 resulting therefrom.

Catastrophe reinsurance A form of excess of loss reinsurance
 that, subject to a specified limit,
 indemnifies the ceding company for the
 amount of loss in excess of a specified
 retention with respect to an
 accumulation of losses resulting from a
 catastrophic event. The actual
 reinsurance document is called a
 "catastrophe cover."

Cede; Cedent; Ceding company When a party reinsures all or part of
 its risks with another, it "cedes and is referred to as the
 "cedent" or "ceding company."

Common account reinsurance Arrangements whereby the ceding company
 enters the reinsurance market and
 purchases a cover for the benefit of the
 ceding company and the reinsurers on the
 reinsurance treaty. A pro rata portion
 of the costs of this protection is
 deducted from the ceded premium.

Credit enhancement Use of financial guaranty to upgrade the
 quality of a security through the use of
 an insurance policy or letter of credit
 or other means.

Direct underwriter; Direct writer An insurer or reinsurer that markets and
 sells insurance directly to its insureds
 or reinsureds without the assistance of
 brokers.

Excess of loss reinsurance A generic term describing reinsurance
 that indemnifies the reinsured against
 all or a specified portion of losses on
 underlying insurance policies in excess
 of a specified amount, which is called a
 "level" or "retention." Also known as
 non-proportional reinsurance. Excess of
 loss reinsurance is written in layers. A
 reinsurer or group of reinsurers accepts
 a band of coverage up to a specified
 amount. The total coverage purchased by
 the cedent is referred to as a "program"
 and will typically be placed with
 predetermined reinsurers in
 prenegotiated layers. Any liability
 exceeding the outer limit of the program
 reverts to the ceding company, which
 also bears the credit risk of a
 insolvency.

Facultative reinsurance The reinsurance of all or a portion of
 the insurance provided by a single
 policy. Each policy reinsured is
 separately negotiated.


 -22-


Finite risk reinsurance Similar to traditional reinsurance with
 the exception that there is a finite
 risk to the reinsurer with respect to
 minimum and maximum exposure in relation
 to the premium to be received.

Gross premiums written Total premiums for insurance and
 reinsurance assumed during a given
 period.

Incurred but not reported ("IBNR") Reserves for estimated losses that have
 been incurred by insureds and reinsureds
 but not yet reported to the insurer or
 reinsurer, including unknown future
 developments on losses which are known
 to the insurer or reinsurer.

In-force premiums The total of estimated annualized
 premiums of all policies in force as of
 a certain date which would be
 anticipated to generate net premiums
 written during the annual period being
 considered.

Intermediary/broker One who negotiates contracts of
 insurance between an insured and a
 primary insurer on behalf of the insured
 and/or contracts of reinsurance between
 a primary insurer or other reinsured and
 a reinsurer on behalf of the primary
 insurer or reinsured, in each case
 receiving a commission for placement and
 other services rendered.

 syndicate Underwriting members of (which
 can be individual "names" and/or
 dedicated corporate members) that group
 together annually to form a syndicate to
 underwrite insurance coverage. Each
 syndicate is managed by a
 -approved managing agent, which
 appoints one or more active or XX
 underwriters who have the authority to
 bind the syndicate to contracts of
 insurance, pay claims and effect
 recoveries.

Net premiums written Gross premiums written for a given
 period less premiums ceded to
 retrocessionaires during such period.

Primary insurer An insurance company that contracts with
 the insured to provide insurance
 coverage. Such insurer may then cede a
 portion of its business to reinsurers.

Probable maximum loss Under Risk Capital current
 guidelines, probable maximum loss is the
 anticipated maximum exposure to an event
 of a magnitude such that it would be
 expected to occur once in 100 years.

Quota share or proportional
 reinsurance A generic term describing all forms of
 reinsurance in which the reinsurer
 shares a proportional part of the
 original premiums and losses of the
 reinsured. (Also known as pro rata
 reinsurance or participating
 reinsurance.) In proportional
 reinsurance, the reinsurer generally
 pays the ceding company a ceding
 commission. The ceding commission
 generally is based on the ceding
 cost of acquiring the business
 being reinsured (including commissions,
 premium taxes, assessments and
 miscellaneous administrative expenses)
 and also may include a profit factor.
 Generally, the reinsurer gets the
 benefit of common account reinsurance.

RAA Reinsurance Association of America, a
 trade association of medium and large
 property and casualty reinsurers doing
 business in the United States. The RAA
 provides statistical data concerning the
 markets, which voluntarily provide such
 information to the RAA.

Reinsurance An arrangement in which an insurance
 company, the reinsurer, agrees to
 indemnify another insurance or
 reinsurance company, the ceding company,
 against all or a portion of the
 insurance or reinsurance risks
 underwritten by the ceding company under
 one or more policies. 


 -23-


 Reinsurance can provide a ceding company
 with several benefits, including a
 reduction in net liability on individual
 risks and catastrophe protection from
 large or multiple losses. Reinsurance
 also provides a ceding company with
 additional underwriting capacity by
 permitting it to accept larger risks and
 write more business than would be
 possible without a concomitant increase
 in capital and surplus, and facilitates
 the maintenance of acceptable financial
 ratios by the ceding company.
 Reinsurance does not legally discharge
 the ceding company from its liability
 with respect to its obligations to the
 insured.

Reserves Liabilities established by insurers and
 reinsurers to reflect the estimated
 costs of claims payments and the related
 expenses that the insurer or reinsurer
 will ultimately be required to pay in
 respect of insurance or reinsurance it
 has written. Reserves are established
 for losses and for unpaid claims and
 claims expenses and for unearned
 premiums. Loss reserves consist of case
 reserves and IBNR reserves. For
 reinsurers, unpaid claims and claims
 expense reserves are generally not
 significant because substantially all of
 the unpaid claims and claims expenses
 associated with particular claims are
 incurred by the primary insurer and
 reported to reinsurers as losses.
 Unearned premium reserves constitute the
 portion of premiums paid in advance for
 insurance or reinsurance that has not
 yet been provided.

Retention The amount or portion of risk that an
 insurer retains for its own account.
 Losses in excess of the retention level
 are paid by the reinsurer. In
 proportional treaties, the retention may
 be a percentage of the original 
 limit. In excess of loss business, the
 retention is a dollar amount of loss, a
 loss ratio or a percentage.

Retrocession A transaction whereby a reinsurer cedes
 to another reinsurer (the
 "retrocessionaire") all or part of the
 reinsurance that the first reinsurer has
 assumed. Retrocessions do not legally
 discharge the ceding reinsurer from its
 liability with respect to its
 obligations to the reinsured.
 Reinsurance companies cede risks to
 retrocessionaires for reasons similar to
 those that cause primary insurers to
 purchase reinsurance: to reduce net
 liability on individual risks, to
 protect against catastrophic losses, to
 stabilize financial ratios and to obtain
 additional underwriting capacity.

Statutory accounting principles
 ("SAP") The rules and procedures prescribed or
 permitted by United States state
 insurance regulatory authorities
 including the NAIC, which govern the
 preparation of financial statements.
 Such rules and procedures generally
 reflect a liquidating, rather than going
 concern, concept of accounting.

Statutory composite ratio Provides an overall indication of
 underwriting profitability. The ratio is
 the sum of: the ratio of commissions and
 other underwriting expenses to premiums
 written, and the ratio of claims and
 claims expenses to premiums earned. A
 statutory composite ratio under 100%
 indicates underwriting profitability,
 while a composite ratio exceeding 100%
 indicates an underwriting loss.

Statutory surplus The excess of admitted assets over total
 liabilities (including loss reserves),
 determined in accordance with SAP.

Tail The period of time that elapses between
 the writing of the applicable insurance
 policy or the loss event (or the
 knowledge of the loss event)
 and the payment in respect thereof.


 -24-


Treaties The reinsurance of a specified type or
 category of risks defined in a
 reinsurance agreement (a "treaty")
 between an insurer and a reinsurer or
 between a reinsurer and a
 retrocessionaire. In treaty reinsurance,
 the cedent is typically obligated to
 offer, and the reinsurer or
 retrocessionaire is obligated to accept,
 a specified portion of a type or
 category of risks insured by the ceding
 company as set forth in the governing
 contract. Treaty reinsurance may provide
 for proportional or non-proportional
 reinsurance.

Underwriting The or process of
 reviewing applications submitted for
 insurance coverage, deciding whether to
 accept all or part of the coverage
 requested and determining the applicable
 premiums.

Underwriting capacity The maximum amount that an insurance
 company can underwrite. The limit is
 generally determined by the 
 policyholders or statutory surplus,
 which depends, among other things, on
 the admitted assets.
 Reinsurance serves to increase a
 capacity by reducing its
 exposure from particular risks.


 -25-


YEAR 1998, CIK 39899, ______________________________

Item 1. Business. Form 10-K Information (Annual Report
 pp. 53-62); Note 10 - Business Segment
 Information (Annual Report p. 48).

YEAR 1998, CIK 91767, ______________________________

ITEM 1 BUSINESS

 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT - The Company is a South
 Carolina corporation founded in Hartsville, South Carolina in
 1899 as the Southern Novelty Company. The name was
 subsequently changed to Sonoco Products Company. The following
 items from the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders (the "1997
 Annual Report") are incorporated herein by reference:
 Discussion and Analysis on pages 24 - 31, and
 Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page
 36. Through March 1, 1998, a total of 2,990,826 common shares
 have been repurchased at a total cost of $108.2 million under
 the $150 million stock repurchase program announced in
 December 1997.

 FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS - Note 18 to the
 Consolidated Financial Statements on page 42 of the 1997
 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

 NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION - The Operations Review on
 pages 10 - 21, Discussion & Analysis on pages 24
 - 31, and the number of employees on page 1 of the 1997 Annual
 Report are incorporated herein by reference.

 FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS
 AND EXPORT SALES - Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
 Statements on page 41 of the 1997 Annual Report is
 incorporated herein by reference.

 YEAR 1998, CIK 91767, ______________________________

ITEM 1 BUSINESS

 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT - The Company is a South
 Carolina corporation founded in Hartsville, South Carolina in
 1899 as the Southern Novelty Company. The name was
 subsequently changed to Sonoco Products Company. The following
 items from the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders (the "1997
 Annual Report") are incorporated herein by reference:
 Discussion and Analysis on pages 24 - 31, and
 Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page
 36. Through March 1, 1998, a total of 2,990,826 common shares
 have been repurchased at a total cost of $108.2 million under
 the $150 million stock repurchase program announced in
 December 1997.

 FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS - Note 18 to the
 Consolidated Financial Statements on page 42 of the 1997
 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

 NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION - The Operations Review on
 pages 10 - 21, Discussion & Analysis on pages 24
 - 31, and the number of employees on page 1 of the 1997 Annual
 Report are incorporated herein by reference.

 FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS
 AND EXPORT SALES - Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
 Statements on page 41 of the 1997 Annual Report is
 incorporated herein by reference.

 YEAR 1999, CIK 4977, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

 AFLAC Incorporated was incorporated in 1973 under the laws of the State 
of Georgia. AFLAC Incorporated is a general business holding company, and 
acts as a management company, overseeing the operations of its subsidiaries 
by providing management services and making capital available. Its primary 
business is supplemental health insurance, which is marketed and 
administered primarily through its subsidiary, American Family Life 
Assurance Company of Columbus (AFLAC). Most of policies are 
individually underwritten and marketed at the worksite, with premiums paid 
by the employee. Our operations in Japan (AFLAC Japan) and the United 
States (AFLAC U.S.) service the two markets for our insurance operations. 

 We believe AFLAC is the leading writer of cancer expense 
insurance. In recent years, we have diversified our product offerings to 
include other types of supplemental health products in both the United 
States and Japan. AFLAC Japan also sells care plans, supplemental general 
medical expense plans, medical/sickness riders to our cancer plan, and a 
living benefit life plan. AFLAC U.S in addition to cancer expense plans, 
sells other types of supplemental health insurance, including hospital 
intensive care, accident and disability, hospital indemnity, long term care 
and short term disability plans. We also offer several life insurance plans 
in the United States and Japan. 

 The company is authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 
states, the District of Columbia, and several U.S. territories and foreign 
countries. Our only significant foreign operation is AFLAC Japan, which 
accounted for 80%, 79% and 82% of the total revenues for 1998, 
1997 and 1996, respectively, and 86% and 87% of total assets at December 31, 
1998 and 1997, respectively.

 For financial information relating to our foreign and U.S. operations, 
see Exhibit 13, pages 13 5 to 13 30 ( Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)) and page 13 43 (Note 2 
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), which are 
incorporated herein by reference. 

 Three significant items affected net earnings during the three year 
period ended December 31, 1998.

 First, due to a corporate income tax rate reduction in Japan during 
1998, the statutory tax rate for AFLAC Japan declined from 45.3% to 41.7%. 
This tax rate decline resulted in a reduction in our deferred income tax 
liability as of March 31, 1998, which increased net earnings by $121 million 
($.46 per basic share and $.44 per diluted share) in 1998. For additional 
information on the income tax reduction, see Exhibit 13, page 13 61, Note 8 
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 The second factor affecting net earnings was a policyholder protection 
fund system mandated by the Japanese government during the first quarter of 
1998. The pretax charge for our obligation to the new protection fund was 
$111 million ($65 million after tax, or $.24 per both basic and diluted 


 I 1

shares). For further information regarding this policyholder protection 
fund, see Exhibit 13, page 13 43, Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.

 Also affecting net earnings was the sale of our television business, 
which consisted of seven network affiliated stations. The total pretax gain 
from the sale was $327 million. The sale of one station closed on December 
31, 1996. The pretax and after tax gains recognized in 1996 on this sale 
were $60 million and $48 million, respectively. The effect of the after tax 
gain on 1996 basic and diluted net earnings per share was $.17 and $.16, 
respectively. The pretax and after tax gains recognized during the second 
quarter of 1997 on the closing of the six remaining stations were $267 
million and $211 million, respectively. The effect of the after tax gain on 
1997 basic and diluted net earnings per share was $.77 and $.75, 
respectively. For further information, see Exhibit 13, page 13 43, Note 2 
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 The following discussion of earnings comparisons focuses on pretax 
operating earnings and excludes realized investment gains/losses, the charge 
for the mandated policyholder protection fund, the benefit of the Japanese 
tax rate reduction and the gains from the sale of the television business. 
Operating earnings per share referred to in the following discussion are 
based on the diluted number of average outstanding shares.

 Due to the relative size of AFLAC Japan, fluctuations in the yen/dollar 
exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported results. In 
years when the yen weakens, translating yen into dollars causes fewer 
dollars to be reported. When the yen strengthens, translating yen into 
dollars causes more dollars to be reported. 

 The yen weakened in relation to the dollar throughout 1996, 1997 and 
most of 1998. The average yen to dollar exchange rates were 130.89 in 1998, 
121.07 in 1997 and 108.84 in 1996. The weakening of the yen during the 
three year period lowered operating earnings by $.05 per share in 1998 
compared with 1997, $.09 per share in 1997 compared with 1996 and $.15 per 
share in 1996 compared with 1995. Despite the weakening of the yen, 
operating earnings per share increased 17.3% to $1.56 in 1998, 10.8% to 
$1.33 in 1997, and 2.6% to $1.20 in 1996. 

 Our primary financial objective is the growth of operating earnings per 
share before the effect of foreign currency translations. In 1996, we set 
this objective at an annual growth rate of 15% to 17% through the year 2000. 
In early 1998 we increased our goal for 1998 to 20% growth, which we 
exceeded. Excluding the effect of currency fluctuations, operating earnings 
per share increased 21.1% in 1998, 18.3% in 1997 and 15.4% in 1996.

 In April 1998, we raised our 1999 objective for growth in operating 
earnings per share to 20% excluding the impact of currency fluctuation. For 
further information, see Exhibit 13, pages 13 7 to 13 8 (Foreign Currency 
Translation section of MD&A).

 Insurance premiums and investment income from insurance operations are 
the major sources of revenues. Our consolidated premium income was $5.9 
billion for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 
1998. For further information on our consolidated premiums earned by 
business segment, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in Exhibit 13, page 13 43, incorporated herein by reference. 

 I 2

 The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for insurance business in Japan and the United States for the 
years ended December 31.

 (In millions) 1998 1997 1996 
 . . . 
Annualized premiums in force, 
 at beginning of year $ 5,811 $ 5,953 $ 5,873
 New issues including
 policy conversions 1,061 921 1,056
 Change in unprocessed 
 policies (24) (65) 39
 Lapses and surrenders (552) (479) (423)
 Other 23 26 1
 Foreign currency translation
 adjustment 612 (545) (593)
 . . . Annualized premiums in force,
 at end of year $ 6,931 $ 5,811 $ 5,953
 . . . 

INVESTMENTS AND INVESTMENT RESULTS 

 During the fourth quarter of 1998, we revised our investment management 
policy regarding the holding period intent for certain of our private 
placement debt securities. Our past practice was to hold these securities 
to their contractual or economic maturity dates. We have now made this our 
formal policy. Accordingly, debt securities carried at a fair value of $6.4 
billion were reclassified as of October 1, 1998, from the category available for sale to the category held to maturity. The related 
unrealized gain of $1.1 billion as of October 1, 1998, on these securities 
is being amortized over the remaining term of the securities. Securities 
that are available for sale are reported in the balance sheet at fair value 
and securities that are held to maturity are reported at amortized cost.

 In recent years, AFLAC Japan has purchased perpetual debenture 
securities issued primarily by European and Japanese banks. These 
securities are subordinated to other debt obligations of the issuer, but 
rank higher than equity securities. Although these securities have no 
contractual maturity, the issue date fixed rate interest coupons 
subsequently increase to a market interest rate plus 150 to 300 basis points 
and change to a variable interest rate basis, generally by the 25th year 
after issuance, creating an economic maturity date.














 I 3

 The following table shows an analysis of investment securities (at cost 
or amortized cost) at December 31 

 AFLAC Japan AFLAC U.S.
(In millions) 1998 1997 1998 1997
 . . Available for sale 
 Fixed maturity securities $12,886 $13,527 $ 2,813 $ 2,546
 Perpetual debentures 1,344 3,011 70 37
 Equity securities 22 7 79 73
 . . . . Total available for sale 14,252 16,545 2,962 2,656
 . . . . Held to maturity 
 Fixed maturity securities 3,947 
 Perpetual debentures 3,494 
 . . . . Total held to maturity 7,441 
 . . . . Total $21,693 $16,545 $ 2,962 $ 2,656
 . . . . 

 Net investment income was $1.1 billion in both 1998 and 1997, and $1.0 
billion in 1996.

 AFLAC primarily invests within the United States, Japan and Euroyen 
investment markets. We maintain a strong portfolio by investing in 
investment grade securities that provide us with a predictable source of 
investment income. When committing cash flows to new investments, we only 
purchase securities that are rated investment grade by the Securities 
Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. 

 For information on the composition of our investment portfolio and 
investment results, see Exhibit 13, pages 13 13 and 13 17 to 13 30 
(discussions relating to investments, balance sheet and cash flow) and pages 
13 48 to 13 56 (Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements), which are incorporated herein by reference.


INVESTMENTS JAPAN

 Approximately 90.8% of the 332.1 billion yen ($2.9 billion) that AFLAC 
Japan had available for investment in 1998 was invested in yen denominated 
securities at an average yield of 3.84%. We invested 55.8% in longer dated 
securities at an average rate of 4.72%. The longer dated sector includes 
purchases of dual currency bonds (yen principal securities that pay a dollar 
coupon) at an average yield of 4.91%. An additional 35.0% was invested in 
yen denominated securities of various other sectors. Dollar denominated 
securities accounted for the remaining 9.2% of the purchases in 1998 at an 
average yield to maturity of 7.61%.

 We require that all private placement issuers have an initial rating of 
class 1 or 2 as determined by the Securities Valuation Office of the 
National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Most of private 
placement issues are issued under medium term note programs and have 
standard covenants commensurate with credit rankings, except when internal 

 I 4

credit analysis indicates that additional protective and/or event risk 
covenants are required.

 Following is the composition of total investments and cash (at cost or 
amortized cost) for AFLAC Japan as of December 31 

 1998 1997
 . . Debt securities 
 Government and guaranteed 31.3% 36.7%
 Municipalities 4.0 4.5
 Public utilities 16.3 15.7
 Banks/financial institutions 35.9 31.9
 Other corporate 10.9 10.0
Equity securities .1 .1
Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 1.1
 . . 100.0% 100.0%
 . . 
 AFLAC invests primarily within the Japanese, U.S. and Euroyen fixed 
maturity markets. We use specific criteria to judge the credit quality and 
liquidity of our investments, and use a variety of credit rating services to 
monitor these criteria. Applying those various credit ratings to a 
standardized rating system based on the categories of a nationally 
recognized rating service, the percentages of AFLAC debt securities, 
at amortized cost, as of December 31 were as follows 

 1998 1997
 . . AAA 41.7% 47.8%
 AA 16.6 17.4
 A 28.0 26.8
 BBB 13.7 8.0
 . . 100.0% 100.0%
 . . 
 As of December 31, 1998, we held no debt securities rated below BBB. 
However, in January 1999, the credit ratings of several major Japanese 
financial institutions were downgraded. We owned debt securities issued by 
a Japanese bank in the amount of $454 million, or 1.8% of total company debt 
securities at December 31, 1998. Following the downgrade, these securities 
were rated Ba1 by and BB+ by Standard & .

 life insurance industry has contended with low investment 
yields for the last several years. Despite a series of premium rate 
increases designed to help offset the effect of lower yields, the low 
interest rate environment took its toll in April 1997 when Nissan Mutual 
Life Insurance Company was declared insolvent. As a result, more attention 
has been paid to the composition of the life insurance assets. 
Our asset allocation is much different than the industry as a whole and, we 
believe, is better suited to a low interest rate environment. Based on 
March 31, 1998, Japanese Financial Supervisory Agency (FSA) data, AFLAC had 
the highest portfolio yield among all of major life insurers. AFLAC 
earned this distinction without sacrificing the quality of its portfolio.


 I 5

 Our investments in the Japanese equity and investment real estate 
markets continued to be immaterial in 1998.


INVESTMENTS U.S.

 Profits repatriated from AFLAC Japan to AFLAC U.S. totaled $154 million 
in 1998, compared with $347 million in 1997. The profit transfer in 1997 
included $125 million of a non recurring nature. Including profit 
repatriation and bond swaps, AFLAC U.S. invested $1.1 billion in 1998. Of 
that amount, approximately 6.2% was invested in U.S. government or agency 
securities at an average yield of 6.89%, and 90.3% was invested in corporate 
fixed maturity securities at 7.26%. The remaining 3.5% was invested in 
equities. 

 Following is the composition of total investments and cash (at cost or 
amortized cost) for AFLAC U.S. as of December 31 

 1998 1997
 . . Debt securities 
 U.S. Government 4.0% 7.3%
 Municipalities .5
 Mortgage backed securities .9 9.0
 Public utilities 6.2 4.2
 Sovereign and Supranational 4.0 4.0
 Banks/financial institutions 50.6 43.1
 Other corporate 31.0 27.9
Equity securities 2.6 2.7
Cash and cash equivalents .7 1.3
 . . 100.0% 100.0%
 . . 
 AFLAC U.S. debt securities, at amortized cost, as of December 31 were 
rated as follows 

 1998 1997
 . . AAA 11.2% 26.4%
 AA 25.4 22.3
 A 55.5 49.0
 BBB 7.9 2.3
 . . 100.0% 100.0%
 . . 

INSURANCE JAPAN

 AFLAC earned premiums by product lines are included in Note 2 
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in Exhibit 13, page 
13 43.





 I 6

 The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC Japan health insurance for the years ended December 31 

(In millions) 1998 1997 1996 
 . . . Annualized premiums in force,
 at beginning of year $ 4,595 $ 4,893 $ 4,919
 New issues including
 policy conversions 579 520 729
 Change in unprocessed
 policies (25) (62) 47
 Lapses and surrenders (212) (193) (187)
 Other (11) (18) (22)
 Foreign currency translation
 adjustment 612 (545) (593)
 . . . Annualized premiums in force,
 at end of year $ 5,538 $ 4,595 $ 4,893
 . . . 
 We are experiencing a slight increase in lapses and surrenders due to 
the poor economic conditions in Japan.


INSURANCE PLANS JAPAN

 insurance is supplemental in nature and is designed to provide 
insurance to cover medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed 
under national health insurance system.

 The cancer life insurance plans offered for sale in Japan provide a 
fixed daily indemnity benefit for hospitalization and outpatient services 
related to cancer and a lump sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of internal 
cancer. The plans differ from the AFLAC U.S. cancer plans (described on page 
I 13) in that the Japanese policies also provide death benefits and cash 
surrender values (we estimate that approximately 32% of the premiums earned 
from all cancer life plans are associated with these benefits). In January 
1997, AFLAC Japan introduced a new economy cancer life policy with lower 
premium rates and benefit levels. This plan was developed to mitigate the 
effect of premium rate increases due to low investment yields available in 
Japan.

 In 1992, we broadened our product line with the introduction of a new 
care product. Care insurance provides periodic benefits to those who become 
bedridden, demented or seriously disabled due to illness or accident. Prior 
to the introduction of this care plan, we marketed a plan that primarily 
provided dementia care benefits. 

 In 1995, we introduced two other products in Japan. The first product 
is an improved medical expense policy. It is similar to hospital indemnity 
insurance products in the United States and provides cash benefits to 
policyholders when they are hospitalized. This product is widely available 
in the Japanese insurance marketplace, but policy is very 
competitive. Our policy offers a maximum hospitalization benefit of 1,000 
days, which is the longest period offered in the industry. Our medical 
expense coverage accounted for 2.7% of total sales in 1998, and 10.8% of 
total sales in 1997 compared with 3.1% in 1996. 

 I 7

 AFLAC Japan also introduced a new living benefit life plan in late 
1995. This product is a life insurance policy that provides lump sum 
benefits when policyholders experience heart attack, cancer or stroke. We 
are offering this product in two forms . as a stand alone policy or as a 
rider to the cancer life plan. The rider adds heart attack and stroke 
benefits to the cancer life policy. Marketing efforts for living benefit 
life primarily focus on the sale of the rider. Sales of the living benefit 
life plan were $41 million and $146 million in new annualized premium in 
1998 and 1997, respectively.

 During 1997, AFLAC Japan began selling ordinary life products. Sales 
for 1998 and 1997 were immaterial.

 In September 1997, the Japanese government increased copayments for the 
employer sponsored health care program from 10% to 20% for the primary 
insured, thereby increasing the portion of the costs the insured must pay. 
Given the increase in copayments, we believe products and riders 
that provide supplemental medical benefits will be especially appealing to 
consumers. As such, we began selling a new product called Rider MAX in 
1998. Rider MAX provides accident and medical/sickness benefits to our 
popular cancer life policy. 

 AFLAC sales mix is changing, although cancer life still 
accounts for the majority of insurance in force. Cancer life sales 
accounted for 49.4% of total new sales in yen in 1998, 52.5% in 1997 and 
46.7% in 1996. We sold more than 948,000 riders of Rider MAX in 1998, which 
was its first year of availability. Rider MAX accounted for 33.2% of our 
sales for the year, and 39.9% of our cancer life policies were sold with 
Rider MAX. The rider we introduced in the fourth quarter of 1995, living 
benefit life, accounted for 7.2% of total new sales in 1998, 28.3% in 1997 
and 39.5% in 1996. Care product sales represented 3.7% of total new sales 
in 1998, 6.8% in 1997 and 10.6% in 1996.

 Due to the continued low level of available investment yields in Japan, 
the industry regulators have directed insurers to increase premium rates on 
new policy issues in recent years. The last industry wide increase was in 
the fourth quarter of 1996. At that time we increased premium rates by 
approximately 13% on new policy issues for all product lines. As a result 
of continuing low yields, the government is again directing life insurers to 
raise rates on new policy issues. We anticipate increasing premium rates in 
July 1999.


JAPANESE ECONOMY

 economy has been weak for several years. The economic downturn 
has spread to several Asian countries since mid 1997. The financial 
strength of many Japanese financial institutions has deteriorated, and some 
have experienced bankruptcy. As we have indicated in the past, the weak 
economy in Japan has resulted in a difficult marketing environment for AFLAC 
Japan, declining available investment yields for new investments and 
decreased consumer confidence.

 Although the Japanese government has developed various economic 
stimulus packages, the time required for the Japanese economy to recover 
remains uncertain.


 I 8

AGENCY FORCE JAPAN

 The development of a corporate agency system has been important to 
the growth of AFLAC Japan. Affiliated corporate agencies are formed when 
companies establish subsidiary businesses to sell AFLAC products to their 
 suppliers and customers. These agencies help us reach the 
employees of almost all of large corporations. We have no ownership 
interest in these corporate agencies.

 Our products are also sold through independent corporate agencies and 
individual agencies that are not affiliated with large companies. As of 
December 31, 1998, there were 7,010 agencies in Japan with 32,622 licensed 
agents, compared with 5,427 agencies and 25,293 licensed agents in Japan in 
1997. Agents' activities are principally limited to insurance sales, with 
policyholder service functions handled by the main office in Tokyo and 60 
offices located throughout Japan.


COMPETITION JAPAN

 In 1974, AFLAC became the second foreign (non Japanese) life insurance 
company to gain direct access to the Japanese insurance market by obtaining 
a license to do business in Japan. Through 1981, we were the only company 
in Japan authorized to issue a cancer life insurance policy. Now, 16 other 
life companies offer cancer insurance. However, we remain the leading 
provider of cancer life insurance coverage in Japan, principally due to our 
lead time in the market, unique marketing system (see Agency Force Japan), 
low cost operations and product expertise developed in the United States. 
AFLAC has been very successful in the sale of cancer life policies in Japan, 
with 13.0 million cancer life policies in force at December 31, 1998.

 In 1998, AFLAC had a 89% market share of all stand alone (non rider) 
care insurance sold by life insurance companies. We believe the future 
demand for this product will be fueled by the Japanese plan to 
introduce a national care insurance program of its own. Given the current 
state of the Japanese economy, it is unlikely that the government can afford 
to pay for the entire program, and as a result, private care insurance will 
be an important aspect of the new program.

 In December 1996, the governments of the United States and Japan 
reached an agreement on deregulation of the Japanese insurance industry. 
The agreement calls for the gradual liberalization of the industry through 
the year 2001 and includes provisions to avoid radical change in the third 
sector of the insurance industry, which includes our supplemental insurance 
products. AFLAC and other foreign owned insurers, as well as some small to 
medium sized Japanese insurers, operate primarily in the third sector. One 
of the measures for avoiding radical change in the third sector is the 
prohibition of additional Japanese life and non life insurance companies 
from selling cancer or medical insurance until January 1, 2001. AFLAC has 
inherent competitive advantages through its distribution, products, 
administrative efficiency and financial soundness that should enable it to 
continue to grow, even in a more competitive environment. The ultimate 
impact, however, of deregulation still isn't known.

 strategy for future growth in Japan centers on broadening its 
product line and expanding the distribution system. Although the basic plan 
for growth is the same in Japan as in the United States, we have had to 

 I 9

formulate a strategy specifically tailored for the Japanese insurance 
marketplace, which is very different from the United States. There are only 
45 life insurance companies in Japan, compared with more than 2,000 in the 
United States. In Japan, insurers have traditionally been restricted in the 
types of policies they could offer. However, as Japan begins deregulating 
the insurance industry, the marketplace should become more competitive, with 
insurers able to offer more types of products, as they do in the United 
States. When deregulation is complete, we believe we will be able to sell 
more products than we are currently offering.


REGULATION AND REMITTANCE OF FUNDS JAPAN

 Payments are made from AFLAC Japan to the Parent Company for management 
fees and to AFLAC U.S. for allocated expenses and remittances of earnings. 
These payments totaled $192 million in 1998, $386 million in 1997 and $254 
million in 1996. Management fees paid to the Parent Company are largely 
based on expense allocations.

 A portion of AFLAC annual earnings, as determined on a Japanese 
statutory accounting basis, can be remitted each year to AFLAC U.S. after 
satisfying various conditions imposed by Japanese regulatory authorities for 
protecting policyholders. The Japanese Financial Supervisory Agency (FSA) 
imposes solvency standards that represent a form of risk based capital 
requirements. AFLAC Japan must meet these requirements to continue profit 
transfers to AFLAC U.S. At this time, AFLAC Japan is in compliance with 
these standards, and we do not expect these requirements to adversely affect 
the repatriation of funds from Japan in the foreseeable future.

 Repatriated profits represent a portion of the after tax earnings 
reported to the FSA on a March 31 fiscal year basis each year. Such 
regulatory basis earnings are determined using accounting principles that 
differ materially from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Such 
differences relate primarily to the valuation of investments, policy benefit 
and claim reserves, acquisition costs and deferred income taxes. Among 
other items, fluctuations in currency translations of AFLAC U.S. 
dollar denominated investments into yen also affect regulatory earnings. 
Japanese regulatory earnings and related profit repatriations may therefore 
vary materially from year to year because of these differences. Management 
currently expects that 1999 profit repatriation will approximate 20 billion 
yen ($171 million using the December 31, 1998, exchange rate).

 During the second quarter of 1997, Nissan Mutual Life Insurance 
Company, a medium sized Japanese insurer, was declared insolvent. All life 
insurers doing business in Japan had previously agreed to contribute to a 
voluntary policyholder protection fund that would be used to help offset 
insurer insolvencies. During the second quarter of 1997, AFLAC Japan 
recognized a pretax charge of 3.0 billion yen ($25 million) for its 
obligation to this policyholder protection fund. The after tax charge was 
$14 million ($.05 per basic and diluted share). This assessment is payable 
semiannually over 10 years beginning in 1998.

 During the first quarter of 1998, the Japanese government enacted a 
mandatory policyholder protection fund system. The life insurance industry 
is required to contribute $4.2 billion to this fund over a 10 year period. 
The total charge for our share of the contribution obligation was recognized 
in the first quarter of 1998 and decreased pretax earnings by $111 million

 I 10

for the year ended December 31, 1998. The after tax charge was $65 million, 
or $.24 per basic and diluted share.

 Effective January 1, 1998, the Japanese government changed the income 
tax provisions for foreign companies operating in Japan, increasing income 
taxes on investment income and realized gains/losses from securities issued 
by entities located in their home country. This change increases Japanese 
income taxes on the income from most of AFLAC dollar denominated 
securities. In addition, the Japanese government enacted a reduction in the 
Japanese corporate income tax rate in March 1998. The statutory rate for 
AFLAC Japan declined from 45.3% to 41.7% beginning May 1, 1998. The net 
effect of these two Japanese tax changes increased income tax expense on 
consolidated operating earnings by approximately $10 million for the year 
ended December 31, 1998 (an increase of approximately $22 million from 
increased taxes on AFLAC dollar denominated investment income, less 
approximately $12 million from the benefit of the statutory tax rate 
reduction).

 The Japanese tax rate reduction also resulted in a benefit to 1998 
earnings of $121 million ($.46 per basic share, $.44 per diluted share) from 
the reduction of AFLAC deferred tax liability as of March 31, 1998 
(the date of enactment of the reduced tax rate). The deferred tax reduction 
represented the effect of recalculating Japanese deferred income taxes at 
the new 41.7% rate on the temporary differences between the financial 
reporting basis and the Japanese income tax basis of AFLAC assets 
and liabilities.

 The Japanese income tax change in 1998 described above, relating to the 
income on AFLAC dollar denominated securities issued by U.S. 
entities, also impacted income tax expense for the two other comprehensive 
income components for the year ended December 31, 1998. Deferred income tax 
expense on unrealized gains (losses) for 1998 on debt securities includes 
$76 million for AFLAC dollar denominated securities, of which $59 
million related to accumulated unrealized gains existing as of January 1, 
1998 (the effective date of the tax law change). The deferred income tax 
benefits of $29 million on changes in unrealized foreign currency 
translation gains for 1998 represent Japanese income taxes on currency 
translation gains that arise for Japanese tax purposes from conversion of 
AFLAC dollar denominated investments into yen. This tax benefit is 
net of a deferred income tax expense of $51 million on accumulated currency 
translation gains existing as of January 1, 1998.

 In late 1998, the Japanese government proposed a further reduction in 
the Japanese statutory income tax rate. The proposal would reduce AFLAC 
 income tax rate from 41.7% to 36.2% effective April 1, 1999. The 
proposal is expected to be finalized in early 1999. Such tax rate reduction 
is not expected to reduce future consolidated income tax expense. 
Instead, it will largely result in a shift of income tax expense from Japan 
to the United States as a result of the U.S. foreign tax credit provisions.

 The insurance business in Japan, which is conducted as a branch office 
of AFLAC, is subject to regulation by the FSA, similar to the regulation and 
supervision in the United States as described on pages I 16 and I 17 under Regulation U.S. AFLAC Japan files annual reports and financial 
statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 year 
end, prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices 


 I 11

prescribed or permitted by the FSA. Also, financial and other affairs of 
AFLAC Japan are subject to examination by the FSA. 

 Reconciliations of AFLAC Japan net assets on a GAAP basis to net assets 
determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis as of December 31 are 
as follows 

(In millions unaudited) 1998 1997 
 . . Net assets on GAAP basis $ 2,726 $ 2,541
Elimination of deferred policy 
 acquisition costs (2,340) (1,940)
Elimination of unrealized gains and
 other adjustments to carrying value
 of debt securities (2,856) (3,350)
Adjustment to policy liabilities 1,384 1,612
Elimination of deferred income taxes 1,478 1,635
Reduction in premiums receivable (128) (114)
Policyholder protection fund 175 29
Other, net (42) (13)
 . . Net assets on Japanese regulatory
 accounting basis $ 397 $ 400
 . . 

 For additional information regarding AFLAC operations, see 
Exhibit 13, pages 13 10 to 13 14 (AFLAC Japan section of MD&A) and pages 13 
43 and 13 67 (Notes 2 and 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements), which are incorporated herein by reference.


EMPLOYEES JAPAN

 AFLAC Japan had 2,038 employees at December 31, 1998. AFLAC Japan 
considers its employee relations to be excellent.


INSURANCE U.S.

 AFLAC U.S. earned premiums by product line are summarized in Note 2 
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 13, page 
13 43. 















 I 12

 The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC U.S. insurance for the years ended December 31.

(In millions) 1998 1997 1996 
 . . . Annualized premiums in force at
 beginning of year $ 1,216 $ 1,060 $ 954
 New issues including policy
 conversions 482 401 327
 Change in unprocessed policies 1 
 Lapses (340) (286) (236)
 Other 34 44 23
 . . . Annualized premiums in force at
 end of year $ 1,393 $ 1,216 $ 1,060
 . . . 

HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS U.S.

 insurance is supplemental in nature and is designed for people 
who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage. Our 
supplemental health insurance plans are guaranteed renewable for the 
lifetime of the policyholder. We cannot cancel guaranteed renewable 
coverage, but we can increase premium rates on existing and future policies 
by class of policy in response to claims experience higher than originally 
expected (subject to federal and state loss ratio guidelines) on a uniform, 
nondiscriminatory basis. Any premium rate increases are subject to state 
regulatory approval. 

 cancer plans are designed to provide insurance benefits for 
medical and nonmedical costs that are generally not reimbursed by major 
medical insurance. We currently offer a series of three different cancer 
plans in the United States that vary by benefit amount. All three plans 
provide a first occurrence benefit that pays an initial amount when internal 
cancer is first diagnosed, a fixed amount for each day an insured is 
hospitalized for cancer treatment, and benefits for medical, radiation, 
chemotherapy, surgery and a wellness benefit applicable toward certain 
diagnostic tests such as mammograms, pap smears, prostate exams, flexible 
sigmoidoscopy, etc. These plans also contain benefits that reimburse the 
insured for nursing services, home health care, extended care facilities, 
hospice, second surgical opinion, experimental treatment, 
evaluation/consultation from the National Cancer Institute, bone marrow and 
stem cell transplant, family lodging, ambulance, transportation, anesthesia, 
prosthesis, blood, and plasma expenses related to cancer treatments. We 
also issue several riders, including one that increases the amount of the 
first occurrence benefit on each rider anniversary date until the covered 
person reaches age 65 or until internal cancer is diagnosed. AFLAC 
periodically introduces new forms of coverage, revising benefits and related 
premiums based upon the anticipated needs of the policyholders and our claim 
experience. 

 We offer an accident and disability policy to protect against losses 
resulting from accidents. The accident portion of the policy includes lump 
sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific injuries. 
Fixed benefits for hospital confinement, emergency treatment, follow up 
treatments, ambulance, transportation, family lodging, wellness, prosthesis, 

 I 13

medical appliances and physical therapy are also provided. Optional 
disability riders are available to the primary insured and include choices 
of a sickness disability rider, on the job disability rider and off the job 
disability rider. These benefits are payable up to a maximum benefit period 
of one year and for one disability at a time.

 AFLAC also issues other supplemental health insurance, such as 
intensive care, which is a low premium policy that provides protection 
against the high cost of intensive care facilities during hospital 
confinement, regardless of reimbursements from other insurers. Other types 
of health insurance issued include qualified and non qualified long term 
care plans, short term disability, and a hospital confinement indemnity 
policy. 


LIFE INSURANCE PLANS U.S.

 AFLAC issues various life insurance policies including whole life, 
limited pay life, voluntary group term life and term life coverage. 


AGENCY FORCE AND MARKETING U.S.

 Our sales force is comprised of independent sales agents who are 
licensed to sell accident and health insurance. Many are also licensed to 
sell life insurance. Most agents' efforts are directed toward selling 
supplemental health insurance at the worksite. The average number of U.S. 
agents actively producing business monthly during 1998 was 7,918, compared 
with 7,376 in 1997 and 6,665 in 1996.

 Agents' activities are principally limited to sales, with policyholder 
service functions, including issuance of policies, premium collection, 
payment notices and claims handled by the staff at headquarters. Agents are 
paid commissions based on first year and renewal premiums from their sales 
of health and life insurance products. The state, regional and district 
sales coordinators are also independent contractors, and are compensated by 
override commissions. 

 We have concentrated on the development of marketing at the worksite. 
This method offers policies to individuals through common media such as 
employment, trade and other associations. This manner of marketing is 
distinct from group insurance sales in that each individual insured is 
directly contacted by the sales associate. Policies are individually 
underwritten, with premiums generally paid by the employee. Additionally, 
AFLAC supplemental policies are portable so that individuals may retain 
their full insurance coverage upon separation from employment or such 
affiliation, generally at the same premium. A major portion of premiums on 
such sales are collected through payroll deduction or other forms of 
centralized billings. Group issued plans normally result in a lower average 
age of the insured at the time of policy issuance and also result in certain 
savings in administrative costs, a portion of which are passed on to the 
policyholder in the form of reduced premiums. Marketing at the worksite 
enables the agency force to reach a greater number of prospective 
policyholders than individual solicitation and lowers distribution costs. 

 Another valuable marketing and sales tool is the flexible benefits 
program, or cafeteria plan, which allows an employee to pay for medical 

 I 14

insurance using pretax dollars. These programs help achieve increased 
penetration as agents are required to present the program to all employees. 
They also help improve overall persistency levels due to the limited changes 
allowed during the plan year.

 We continue to develop marketing arrangements with insurance brokers. 
Insurance brokers generally have better access to larger groups than 
independent agents. The core of our distribution network will remain 
independent agents.

 In 1998, U.S. premiums collected were $1.2 billion, 7.2% of 
which was collected in Texas, 6.5% in Florida, 6.0% in Georgia, and 5.7% in 
North Carolina. Premiums collected in all other states were individually 
less than 5% of U.S. premiums.


COMPETITION U.S.

 The accident and health and life insurance industry in the United 
States is highly competitive. AFLAC competes with a large number of other 
insurers, some of which have been for a longer period of time. 
In the United States, there are more than 2,000 life and accident and health 
insurance companies.

 Private insurers and voluntary and cooperative plans, such as Blue 
Cross and Blue Shield, provide insurance for meeting basic hospitalization 
and medical expenses. Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis. The 
federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical 
treatment through Medicare and Medicaid programs. Such major medical 
insurance generally covers a substantial amount of the medical (but not 
nonmedical) expenses incurred by an insured as a result of cancer or other 
major illnesses. policies are designed to provide coverage that is 
supplemental to coverage provided by major medical insurance. Our benefits 
may also be used to defray nonmedical expenses.

 Since other insurers generally do not provide full coverage of medical 
expenses or any coverage of nonmedical expenses, our supplemental insurance 
is not an alternative to major medical insurance, but is sold to complement 
(supplement) major medical insurance by helping cover the gap between major 
medical insurance reimbursements and the total costs of an 
health care. Thus we compete only indirectly with major medical insurers in 
terms of premium rates and similar factors. However, the scope of the major 
medical coverage offered by other insurers does represent a limitation on 
the market for our products. Accordingly, expansion of coverage by other 
insurers or governmental programs could adversely affect our business 
opportunities. Conversely, any reduction of coverages, such as increased 
deductibles and copayments, by other insurers or governmental programs could 
favorably affect our business opportunities.

 We compete directly with other insurers offering supplemental health 
insurance and believe that our policies and premium rates are generally 
competitive with those offered by other companies selling similar types of 
insurance. 

 For additional information regarding U.S. insurance operations, see 
Exhibit 13, pages 13 14 to 13 16 (AFLAC U.S. section of MD&A), which is 
incorporated herein by reference.

 I 15

REGULATION U.S.

 The Parent Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to state 
regulations in the United States as an insurance holding company system. 
Such regulations generally provide that transactions between companies 
within the holding company system must be fair and equitable. In addition, 
transfer of assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend 
payments from insurance subsidiaries and material transactions between 
companies within the system are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, 
state regulatory authorities.

 AFLAC and its subsidiaries, in common with all U.S. insurance 
companies, are subject to regulation and supervision in the states and other 
jurisdictions in which they do business. In general, the insurance laws of 
the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad 
administrative powers relating to, among other things granting and revoking 
licenses to transact business, regulating trade practices, licensing agents, 
prior approval of forms of policies and premium rate increases, standards of 
solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum 
loss ratio requirements, capital for the protection of policyholders, 
limitations on dividends to shareholders, the nature of and limitations on 
investments, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, filing 
of financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory insurance 
accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the regulatory authorities, 
and periodic examinations of the financial, market conduct, and other 
affairs of insurance companies. 

 Currently, prescribed or permitted statutory accounting principles 
(SAP) used by insurers for financial reporting to state insurance regulators 
may vary between states and between companies. The National Association of 
Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has recodified SAP to promote standardization 
throughout the industry. These new accounting requirements are presently 
planned by the NAIC to be effective for 2001. They must also be adopted by 
the individual state insurance departments. The most significant change to 
AFLAC is the requirement that insurance companies establish a deferred 
income tax liability for statutory accounting purposes. We estimate 
deferred tax liability would be approximately $165 million at December 31, 
1998, under the provisions of the recodified SAP. capital and 
surplus, as determined on the present U.S. statutory accounting basis, was 
$1.6 billion at December 31, 1998.

 For further information concerning state regulatory and dividend 
restrictions, see Exhibit 13, page 13 67 (Note 10 Statutory Accounting and 
Dividend Restrictions of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), 
incorporated herein by reference.

 The NAIC risk based capital formula for U.S. life insurance companies 
established capital requirements based on insurance risk, business risk, 
asset risk and interest rate risk. These requirements are intended to 
facilitate identification by insurance regulators of inadequately 
capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and mixtures of risks 
inherent in the operations. The formulas for determining the 
amount of risk based capital specify various weighting factors that are 
applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the 
perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of 
the regulatory total adjusted capital to its authorized control 
level risk based capital, as defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific 

 I 16

trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which 
requires specified corrective action. The levels are company action, 
regulatory action, authorized control and mandatory control. Our NAIC risk 
based capital ratio exceeds all regulatory action levels and continues to 
reflect a very strong statutory capital and surplus position.

 Two states have laws, regulations or regulatory practices that either 
prohibit the sale of specified disease insurance, such as our cancer expense 
insurance, or make its sale impractical. These states are Massachusetts and 
New Jersey. Regulations in New York and Connecticut were recently changed 
to allow the sale of specified disease insurance. We are now marketing 
cancer insurance in New York and Connecticut. The remainder of the states 
do not impose prohibitions or restrictions that prevent us from marketing 
cancer expense insurance. AFLAC U.S. is marketing several of its other 
products in Massachusetts and New Jersey.

 Under insurance guaranty fund laws in most U.S. states, insurance 
companies doing business in those states can be assessed for policyholder 
losses up to prescribed limits that are incurred by insolvent companies with 
similar lines . Such assessments have not been material to us in 
the past. We believe that future assessments relating to companies in the 
U.S. currently involved in insolvency proceedings will not materially impact 
the consolidated financial statements.


EMPLOYEES U.S.

 In the U.S. insurance operations, we had 2,156 employees at December 
31, 1998. We consider our employee relations to be excellent.


POLICY LIABILITIES JAPAN AND U.S.

 The reserves for policy liabilities reported in the financial 
statements have been computed in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles (GAAP). These reserves differ from those reflected in 
the various regulatory financial statements filed by the Company. Such 
differences arise from the use of different mortality, morbidity, interest, 
lapse assumptions and actuarial reserving methods as required by the laws of 
the various states and Japan.


OTHER OPERATIONS

 In 1997, we sold our Canadian insurance subsidiary and on December 31, 
1998, we sold our insurance operation in Taiwan. Both transactions produced 
nominal gains. 

 The other operations had 256 employees at December 31, 1998. 


YEAR 2000

 The term year 2000 issue generally refers to incorrect date 
calculations that might occur in computer software and hardware as the year 
2000 approaches. The use of computer programs that rely on two digit date 
fields to perform computations and decision making functions may cause

 I 17

systems to malfunction when processing information involving dates after 
1999. For example, any computer software that has date sensitive coding 
might recognize a code of 00 as the year 1900 rather than the year 2000.

 Our efforts to address year 2000 issues began in 1997. We established 
a Year 2000 Executive Steering Committee, made up of XX management and 
representatives of our information technology, financial, legal, internal 
audit and various operational areas to identify and address year 2000 issues 
throughout our U.S. and Japanese operations. We also established a Year 
2000 Project Office consisting of department coordinators from Information 
Technology, Worldwide Headquarters business operations and AFLAC Japan. The 
Project Office established both domestic and Japanese plans to address year 
2000 readiness and minimize the risk disruption caused by year 
2000 issues. We also engaged third party consultants to assist AFLAC U.S. 
and AFLAC Japan with their year 2000 efforts.

 The plans contain five phases the assessment phase, which 
includes creating awareness of the issue throughout the company and 
assessment of all systems, significant business processes, facilities and 
third party dependencies the remediation phase, which includes updating 
or modifying systems which are identified as critical to our efforts to 
become year 2000 ready the testing phase, which includes the testing of 
systems that have been updated or modified the implementation phase, 
which includes placing systems into the production environment, as well as 
additional comprehensive testing to identify and resolve any remaining year 
2000 issues and contingency planning. 

 We have remediated substantially all of our critical production systems 
in both the United States and Japan. Verification that the critical 
production systems have been correctly remediated will continue through the 
third quarter of 1999 in a year 2000 test environment. The additional 
testing may raise new issues that require further remediation and 
implementation activities, all of which are scheduled to be completed in the 
third quarter of 1999. We intend to develop contingency plans for any 
critical systems that we determine may not be fully remediated during the 
second and third quarters of 1999 as testing is finalized. Testing and any 
further remediation and implementation activities required for non critical 
systems will continue through the end of 1999.

 We rely on a widely distributed customer base in the United States and 
Japan for continued payment of premiums. Many of the systems utilized by 
our group accounts are automated and date dependent. We randomly surveyed 
group accounts in the United States to determine their year 2000 readiness. 
AFLAC Japan depends heavily on substantial premium payments that are 
electronically transmitted by third party payment agents from employers of 
the insured. We have surveyed our more significant customers in Japan to 
determine whether such customers expect their ability to pay premiums or 
transmit policy and claims data in this fashion to be impacted by year 2000 
issues. We have not yet conducted any tests with those customers in a year 
2000 test environment and have no assurance that they will achieve year 2000 
compliance. We intend to contact certain significant Japanese customers 
during the first quarter of 1999 to recommend data transmission testing. If 
a large number of customers (in the U.S. and/or Japan) are unable to submit 
premium payments in a timely or accurate manner due to year 2000 issues, the 
resulting delays could have a material adverse effect on our financial 
condition or results of operations. It is not currently possible to predict 
the probability of any delays occurring or the extent of such delays.

 I 18

 AFLAC owns publicly traded and privately placed fixed maturity and 
equity securities in the U.S. and Japan, and other foreign countries. If a 
material portion of such securities are adversely impacted by year 2000 
issues, our investment portfolio may also be adversely impacted.

 Since the inception of the year 2000 project, we had incurred costs of 
approximately $18 million for system upgrades or modifications through 
December 31, 1998. Of this amount, approximately $6 million was 
capitalized. The remaining cost to complete the various projects is 
currently estimated to be $14 million, of which $7 million is expected to be 
capitalized. We may determine that additional expenditures are necessary as 
testing continues. Company XX have spent considerable time and 
effort on the project, and we intend to continue to devote additional 
internal resources and XX to work on the project. However, we 
believe that any deferral of information technology projects due to the year 
2000 effort will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or 
financial condition.

 Due to the uncertainty inherent in year 2000 issues, particularly with 
regard to Japanese customers' year 2000 readiness and the various 
governmental functions, public utilities, financial infrastructures and 
similar outside facilities on which we depend in both the United States and 
Japan, we are unable to determine at this time whether the consequences of 
external year 2000 failures will have a material impact on our financial 
condition or results of operations. Although a year 2000 failure with 
respect to any single internal or external system may not have a material 
adverse effect on AFLAC, the failure of multiple systems may cause a 
material disruption to its business.

 All statements made herein regarding our year 2000 efforts are Year 
2000 Readiness Disclosures made pursuant to the Year 2000 Information and 
Readiness Disclosure Act, and to the extent applicable, are entitled to the 
protections of such act.


FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION

 The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe 
harbor to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long 
as those informational statements are identified as forward looking and are 
accompanied by meaningful, cautionary statements identifying important 
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
discussed. We desire to take advantage of these provisions. This report 
contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could 
cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in this Form 
10 K, and in any other statements made by company officers in oral 
discussions with analysts and contained in documents filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward looking statements are 
not based on historical information and relate to future operations, 
strategies, financial results or other developments. In particular, 
statements containing words such as expect, anticipate, believe, goal, objective or similar words as well as specific projections of 
future results generally qualify as forward looking. AFLAC undertakes no 
obligation to update such forward looking statements.

 We caution readers that the following factors, in addition to other 
factors mentioned from time to time in our reports filed with the SEC, could 

 I 19

cause actual results to differ materially regulatory developments, 
assessments for insurance company insolvencies, competitive conditions, new 
products, ability to repatriate profits from Japan, general economic 
conditions in the United States and Japan, changes in U.S. and/or Japanese 
tax laws, adequacy of reserves, credit and other risks associated with 
 investment activities, significant changes in interest rates, 
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and the ability of AFLAC, 
and third parties with whom it does business, to achieve year 2000 readiness 
for significant systems on a timely basis.


YEAR 1999, CIK 69422, ______________________________

Item 1. Description .

BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

The InterGroup Corporation ("InterGroup" or the "Company") is a Delaware
corporation formed in 1985, as the successor to Mutual Real Estate Investment
Trust ("M-REIT"), a New York real estate investment trust created in 1965.
The Company has been a publicly-held company since M- first public
offering of shares in 1966 and has been a reporting company pursuant to
Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 since that time.

The Company was organized to buy, develop, operate, rehabilitate and dispose
of real property of various types and descriptions, and to engage in such
oth and investment activities as would benefit the Company and its
shareholders. The Company was founded upon, and remains committed to, social
responsibility. Such social responsibility was originally defined as
providing decent and affordable housing to people without regard to race. In
1985, after examining the impact of federal, state and local equal housing
laws, the Company determined to broaden its definition of social
responsibility. The Company changed its form from a REIT to a corporation so
that it could pursue a variety of investments beyond real estate and broaden
its social impact to engage in any opportunity which would offer the potential
to increase shareholder value within the underlying commitment to
social responsibility, which it redefined to encompass investments in any area
which can have a socially redeeming value and promote the establishment of a
fair, equal and better society.

During the past three years the principal sources of revenue have
been, and continue to be, derived from the operations of its multi-family
residential properties, from the sales and disposition of its real property
assets and from the investment of its cash and securities assets.

The Company owns 53.6% of the common stock of Santa Fe Financial Corporation
("Santa Fe"), a public company (Nasdaq SmallCap: SFEF) and had the power to
vote 57.4% of the voting shares of Santa Fe. Santa revenue is primarily
generated through its 67.2% interest in Portsmouth Square, Inc. ("PSI"), which
derives its revenue primarily through its 49.8% interest in Justice Investors
("Justice"), a limited partnership. Justice owns the land, land improvements
and leasehold known as the Holiday Inn Financial District/Chinatown, a 566-
room hotel in San Francisco, California.


BUSINESS OF ISSUER

The principal business is the ownership and management of
multifamily residential properties. Those properties include nine apartment
complexes located throughout the United States. The Company also has
investments in unimproved real property that is held for sale or development.
The Company acquires its investments in real estate and other investments
utilizing cash, securities or debt, subject to approval or guidelines of the
Board of Directors. 2 for a description of the current
investments in and investment policies concerning real property.

 4

A portion of the assets are invested under the direction of Mr. John
V. Winfield ("Mr. Winfield"), the Chairman and President, in
securities and partnerships. The Company considers investing in equity and
debt securities of companies which are either publicly or privately held if
such an investment will offer growth or profit potential and not conflict with
 perception of social responsibility. The general
investment strategy regarding marketable securities is to identify both
national and international companies which management considers to be
currently out of favor or undervalued because of being misunderstood by the
general investing community and/or companies that potentially could go through
restructuring or reorganization. The Company will also invest in start up
entities, especially those involved in technologies where potential for growth
is perceived. Although the majority of the marketable securities
investments are listed on either the New York or American Stock Exchanges, the
overall investment portfolio and the investment strategies could be
viewed as highly risky and the market values of the portfolio may be subject
to large fluctuations.

The Company may realize gains and losses in its overall investment portfolio
from time to time to take advantage of market conditions and/or manage the
 resources and the tax liability. The Company may also
assume short positions in marketable securities. Short sales are used by the
Company to potentially offset normal market risks undertaken in the course of
its investing activities or to provide additional return opportunities. In
addition, the Company utilizes margin for its marketable securities purchases
through the use of standard margin agreements with national brokerage firms.
The use of available leverage is guided by the business judgment of
management.

The Company also has a controlling interest in Santa Fe, which derives its
revenue primarily through an indirect interest in a 566-room Holiday Inn in
San Francisco, California. In addition, Santa operations include a
marketable securities portfolio and an interest in an apartment complex.

For further information 6 Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

COMPETITION

All of the properties owned by the Company are in areas where there is
substantial competition. However, management believes that the apartments and
hotel are generally in a competitive position in their respective communities.
The Company intends to continue upgrading and improving the physical condition
of its existing properties and to consider selling existing properties and re-
investing in new properties to remain competitive.


EMPLOYEES

As of June 30, 1999, the Company had a total of 11 full-time employees.
The employees and the Company are not party to any collective bargaining
agreement, and the Company believes that its employee relations are
satisfactory.

 5


YEAR 1999, CIK 885508, ______________________________

Item 1. Business
Overview
Stratus Properties Inc., a Delaware corporation (STRS), was
organized in March 1992 by the former parent company, Freeport-
McMoRan Inc. (FTX), and operates through Stratus Properties
Operating Co., a Delaware general partnership (the Partnership),
which is owned by STRS and a wholly owned subsidiary of STRS. 
STRS was formed to hold, operate and develop substantially all
domestic oil and gas properties of, and substantially all
domestic real estate then held for development by, FTX and
certain of its subsidiaries. STRS also assumed substantially all
of the liabilities related to such assets, including
approximately $500 million of indebtedness, substantially all of
which was guaranteed by FTX (see "Credit Facility and IGL Debt
Guarantee" below). STRS sold all of its oil and gas properties
and currently is engaged solely in the development and marketing
of real estate in the Austin, Dallas, Houston and San Antonio,
Texas areas.

STRS' principal real estate holdings are currently in the Austin,
Texas area and consist of approximately 2,450 acres of
undeveloped residential, multi-family and commercial property
within the Barton Creek development, 1,300 acres of undeveloped
property within the Circle C Ranch development, and 500 acres of
undeveloped residential, multi-family and commercial property
known as the Lantana tract, south of and adjacent to the Barton
Creek development.

STRS also owns 99 developed lots, 169 acres of undeveloped
residential property and 75 acres of undeveloped commercial and
multi-family property located in Dallas, Houston and San Antonio,
Texas that are being actively marketed. 2,
"Properties." These real estate interests are managed by
unaffiliated professional real estate developers who have been
retained to provide master planning, zoning, permitting,
development, construction and marketing services for the
properties. Under the terms of these agreements, STRS funds
operating expenses and development costs, net of revenues, and
the developers are entitled to a management fee and a 25 percent
interest in the net profits, after recovery by STRS of its
investments and a stated return, resulting from the sale of
properties under their management.

Pursuant to a joint venture agreement between STRS and IMC-Agrico
Company (IMC-Agrico), a joint venture between Phosphate Resource
Partners Limited Partnership, an affiliate of IMC Global Inc.
(IGL), and IGL, STRS may also participate in the potential future
development of up to approximately 171,000 acres of land in
Florida owned by IMC-Agrico that has been or will be reclaimed
following completion of IMC- phosphate mining activities
on the properties. No significant development activity is
expected in Florida in the near future.

Company Strategies
Since the formation of STRS, the primary objective of managing,
developing and operating its assets has been the reduction of its
indebtedness and the elimination of the debt guarantee. During
1996 and 1997, STRS was able to sell a substantial number of
properties in the Austin area because of several positive
legislative and judicial developments. As a result, STRS
generated significantly higher operating cash flows, which
enabled it to reduce its debt by $63 million during 1996 and
$21.2 million during 1997. Outstanding debt totaled $29.2
million at December 31, 1998.

In December 1997 in connection with the merger of FTX and IGL,
STRS restructured its credit agreement and purchased the portion
of the Partnership that it did not previously own. These events
enabled STRS to become an autonomous company, reduced
restrictions on its business activities and allowed it to pursue
its long standing objective of establishing a long-term, self-
supporting capital structure. In May 1998, STRS formed a
strategic alliance with Olympus Real Estate Corporation (Olympus)
to develop certain of STRS' existing properties and to jointly
pursue new real estate acquisition and development activities. 
These transactions are discussed in more detail below under the
headings, "Credit Facility and IGL Debt Guarantee" and
"Transactions with Olympus."

STRS continues to focus its efforts on reducing and/or
restructuring its debt, developing its properties, and increasing
its return on stockholders' equity. Key factors in accomplishing
these goals include:

 . STRS' overall strategy is to enhance the value of its Austin
 properties by securing and maintaining development
 entitlements, developing and building its own real estate
 projects for sale or investment and limiting the need for
 tract sales to subdevelopers, thereby increasing STRS'
 potential returns from its core assets. These future
 developments may be through joint ventures or wholly owned by
 STRS. To that end, STRS has recently completed construction
 at the ABC West Joint Venture project and is currently
 developing the first phase of an office project at its Lantana
 Corporate Center and several new subdivisions surrounding a
 new Tom Fazio designed golf course being constructed on its
 Barton Creek project. 

 1

 . STRS believes that it has the right to receive in the future
 up to $40 million in reimbursement of certain of its prior
 municipal utility development costs. Substantial additional
 costs eligible for reimbursement will be incurred in the
 future as development continues. STRS received approximately
 $4.7 million of Municipal Utility District (MUD)
 reimbursements during 1998. Approximately $1.0 million of
 these reimbursements were associated with the Barton Creek
 MUDs while the remaining $3.7 million was received from the
 Circle C MUDs. STRS is continuing litigation to enforce its
 entitlement rights to almost approximately $18 million in
 Circle C MUD reimbursements. 3, "Legal Proceedings,"
 for more details on that matter.

 . STRS faces significant challenges to the development
 entitlements of its core properties in Austin, which are more
 fully discussed und 3, "Legal Proceedings." STRS will
 continue to vigorously defend its rights to the development
 entitlements of all its properties, but the City of 
 (the City) aggressive attempts to restrict growth in the area
 of STRS' holdings have had and are expected to continue to
 have a negative effect on near term development and sales
 activities.

 . During 1998 STRS acquired a 50 percent interest in a
 partnership with Olympus to manage the development of Olympus'
 Walden on Lake Houston project near Houston, Texas. STRS will
 continue to evaluate new opportunities in its existing
 markets, including Dallas, Houston and San Antonio, as well as
 elsewhere, in an effort to diversify its holdings both
 geographically and by type of product.

The transactions described under the heading "Transactions with
Olympus" and "Credit Facility and IGL Debt Guarantee" below have
increased STRS' autonomy over its operations and short-term
financial flexibility and enabled STRS to further develop its
core assets in Austin. However, significant capital resources
will be required to fund STRS' further development expenditures
and debt reduction requirements under its existing credit
agreement. See "Capital Resources and Liquidity" included herein
und 7 and 7A. In addition, STRS anticipates continued
challenges to its development entitlements from the City and
special interest groups that may result in delays and higher
development costs requiring additional capital unless resolved.
 3, "Legal Proceedings." STRS will continue to explore
options for restructuring or refinancing its credit agreement and
various means of raising capital, including equity and
subordinated debt investments and additional joint ventures with
Olympus. The future performance of STRS continues to be
dependent on its cash flows from real estate sales, which will be
significantly affected by future real estate values, regulatory
issues, development costs, future interest rate levels and the
ability of STRS to continue to protect its land use and
development entitlements. STRS will be required to actively
pursue all of its alternatives in order to generate sufficient
cash flow or obtain sufficient funds to carry out its development
programs and reduce its bank debt from $27.1 million at December
31, 1998 to $15 million by January 1, 2000 as required by its
existing credit facility.

Credit Facility and IGL Debt Guarantee
On December 22, 1997, FTX merged into IGL (the Merger). In
connection with the Merger, FTX sold its 0.2 percent interest as
managing general partner of the Partnership to STRS and a wholly
owned subsidiary of STRS for $100,000. In addition, STRS
restructured its bank credit agreement to extend its term to
January 1, 2001, with staged reductions of credit available
through the term. STRS had available credit of $50 million
through December 31, 1998. On January 1, 1999 the available
credit was reduced to $35 million through December 31, 1999, and
will be further reduced to $15 million on January 1, 2000. On
January 1, 2001, availability under this credit agreement will be
terminated. As a result of the Merger, IGL became guarantor
under this credit agreement in place of FTX. As financial
guarantor of STRS' credit agreement, IGL receives an annual fee
equal to the difference between STRS' cost of LIBOR-funded
borrowings before the assumption of the guarantee by IGL and the
rate on LIBOR-funded loans under the restructured agreement. 
This fee was 60 basis points (0.6 percent) annually as of
December 31, 1998. STRS has granted liens in favor of IGL on
certain of its properties as security for the guarantee. These
liens would be released for property sales, subject to certain
restrictions. Additionally, under the guarantee terms STRS cannot
amend or refinance the credit facility without consent.

Transactions with Olympus
On May 22, 1998, STRS and Olympus, an affiliate of Hicks, Muse,
Tate and Furst Incorporated, formed a strategic alliance to
develop certain of STRS' existing properties and to pursue new
real estate acquisition and development opportunities. Under
terms of the agreement, Olympus purchased $10 million of STRS'
mandatorily redeemable preferred stock, provided a $10 million
convertible debt facility to STRS and agreed to make available up
to $50 million of additional capital representing its share of
direct investments in joint STRS/Olympus projects. Olympus has
the right to nominate one member or up to 20 percent of STRS'
Board of whichever is greater.

On September 30, 1998, STRS entered into two separate
transactions with Olympus. The first provided for the
development of a 75 residential lot project at the Barton Creek
ABC West Phase I subdivision. STRS sold the land to the joint

 2

venture for approximately $3.2 million and paid approximately
$0.5 million for its 50 percent equity interest in the ongoing
project. The other transaction involved approximately 700
developed lots and 80 acres of platted but undeveloped real
estate at the Walden on Lake Houston project, which Olympus
purchased in April 1998 and STRS has managed ever since. STRS
acquired its 50 percent interest in the related partnership
utilizing $2.0 million of funds available under the Olympus
convertible debt facility. For further discussion of
transactions see "Transactions with Olympus" included 7
and 7A below.

Regulation and Environmental Matters
STRS' real estate investments are subject to extensive local,
city, county and state rules and regulations regarding
permitting, zoning, subdivision, utilities and water quality as
well as federal rules and regulations regarding air and water
quality and protection of endangered species and their habitats.

 Such regulation has delayed and will likely continue to delay
development of STRS' properties and result in higher
developmental and administrative costs. 3, "Legal
Proceedings."

STRS is making, and will continue to make, expenditures with
respect to its real estate development for the protection of the
environment. Emphasis on environmental matters will result in
additional costs in the future. Upon analysis of its operations
in relation to current and presently anticipated environmental
requirements, STRS does not anticipate that these costs will have
a material adverse effect on its future operations or financial
condition.

Employees
Since January 1, 1996, a corporation currently owned 10 percent
by STRS (the Services Company), has provided executive,
accounting, legal, financial, tax, insurance, XX and
management information and similar services pursuant to a
services agreement between STRS and the Services Company, which
STRS may terminate at any time upon 90 days notice. Effective
January 1, 1998, the Services Company provides these services on
a cost reimbursement basis, which totaled $1.0 million in 1998. 
Previously the Services Company provided these services to STRS
for a fixed annual fee of $500,000. At December 31, 1998, STRS
had 14 employees, who manage its operations and supervise the
functions of Services Company XX under the Services
Agreement.

Cautionary Statements
This report includes "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking
statements are all statements other than statements of historical
fact included in this report, including, without limitation, the
statements under the headings ," "Properties," "Market
for Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters,"
and " Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations and Disclosures about Market Risks"
regarding STRS' financial position and liquidity, payment of
dividends, strategic plans, future financing plans, development
and capital expenditures, business strategies, and other plans
and objectives of the management of STRS for future operations
and activities. 

Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and
analysis made by STRS in light of its experience and its
perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected
future developments and other factors it believes are appropriate
under the circumstances. These statements are subject to a
number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including the
risk factors discussed below and in STRS' other filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, general economic and business
conditions, the business opportunities that may be presented to
and pursued by STRS, changes in laws or regulations and other
factors, many of which are beyond the control of STRS. Readers
are cautioned that these statements are not guarantees of future
performance, and actual results or developments may differ
materially from those projected, predicted or assumed in the
forward-looking statements. All subsequent written and oral
forward-looking statements attributable to STRS or persons acting
on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these
cautionary statements. Important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-
looking statements include, among others:

Financing and Liquidity. Substantial reductions in STRS' debt
have been made since its formation in 1992. However, significant
capital resources will be required to fund STRS' development
expenditures and its debt reduction requirements under its credit
agreement. STRS continues to explore options for restructuring
or refinancing its credit agreement and various means of raising
capital, including equity sales, formation of joint ventures with
Olympus, various forms of debt financing and other means. STRS'
performance continues to be dependent on future cash flows from
real estate sales, and there can be no assurance that STRS will
generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain sufficient
funds to make the required debt reduction to $15 million by
January 1, 2000 under its credit agreement.

 3

Although all of STRS' outstanding bank debt subject to the terms
of the bank credit facility is currently guaranteed by IGL, there
is no commitment by IGL to guarantee any such debt after December
2000, and there is no expectation that IGL will provide any
further guarantee.

STRS' real estate operations are also dependent upon the
availability and cost of mortgage financing for potential
customers, to the extent they finance their purchases, and for
buyers of the potential customers' existing residences.

Performance of the Real Estate Industry. The real estate
activities of STRS are subject to numerous factors outside of the
control of management, including local real estate market
conditions (both where its properties are located and in areas
where its potential customers reside), substantial existing and
potential competition, the cyclical nature of the real estate
business, general national, regional and local economic
conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and mortgage
availability and changes in demographic conditions. Real estate
markets have historically been subject to strong periodic cycles
driven by numerous factors beyond the control of market
participants.

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and market values
may be adversely affected by these economic circumstances, market
fundamentals, competition and demographic conditions. Because of
the effect of these factors on real estate values, it is
difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales or
sales prices that will be realized for individual assets.

Regulatory Approval. Before STRS can develop a property it must
obtain a variety of approvals from local and state governments
with respect to such matters as zoning, density, parking,
subdivision, architectural design and environmental issues. 
Because of the discretionary nature of these approvals and the
concerns about development in the areas where STRS' properties
are located that are often raised by government agencies and
special interest groups during the approval and development
processes, STRS' ability to develop properties and realize future
income from its projects could be delayed, reduced, prevented or
made more expensive.

The City and certain special interest groups have long opposed
certain of STRS' plans in the Austin area and have taken various
actions to partially or completely restrict development in
certain areas, including areas where some of STRS' most valuable
properties are located. These actions are being actively
opposed by STRS and other interested parties, and management does
not believe unfavorable rulings will have a significant long-term
adverse effect on the overall value of STRS' property holdings.
However, because of the regulatory environment that continues to
exist in the Austin area and the intensive opposition of certain
interest groups, there can be no assurance that such expectations
will prove correct. A more complete discussion of these matters
is set forth und 3, "Legal Proceedings."

Environmental Regulation. Real estate development is subject to
state and federal regulations and to possible interruption or
termination on account of environmental considerations,
including, without limitation, air and water quality and
protection of endangered species and their habitats. Certain of
the Barton Creek properties include nesting territories for the
Golden Cheek Warbler, a federally listed endangered species. In
February 1995 STRS received a permit from the U.S. Wildlife
Service pursuant to the Endangered Species Act (the ESA), which
to date has allowed the development of the Barton Creek
properties, free of restrictions under the ESA related to the
maintenance of habitat for the Golden Cheek Warbler. 
Additionally, in April 1997, the U.S. Department of Interior
(DOI) listed the Barton Springs Salamander as an endangered
species after a federal court overturned a March 1997 decision by
the DOI not to list the Barton Springs Salamander based on a
conservation agreement between the State of Texas and federal
agencies. The listing of the Barton Springs Salamander hasn't
affected, nor does STRS anticipate it will affect, its Barton
Creek and Lantana properties for several reasons, including the
results of technical studies and STRS' U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service 10 permit obtained in 1995. STRS' Circle C properties
may, however, be affected, although the extent of any impact
cannot be determined at this time. Special interest groups
provided written notice of their intention to challenge STRS'
10 permit and compliance with water quality regulations, but
no challenge has yet to occur.

STRS is making, and will continue to make, expenditures with
respect to its real estate development for the protection of the
environment. Emphasis on environmental matters will result in
additional costs in the future. 

Competition. STRS is highly competitive. A large
number of companies and individuals are engaged in the real
estate business, and many of them possess financial resources
greater than those of STRS. In each of STRS' markets it competes
against local developers who are committed primarily to
particular markets and also against national developers who
acquire properties throughout the United States.

Geographic Concentration and Dependence on the Texas Economy. 
STRS' real estate activities are located entirely in the Austin,
Dallas, Houston and San Antonio, Texas areas. Because of STRS'
geographic concentration and limited number of projects, its

 4

operations are more vulnerable to local economic downturns and
adverse project-specific risks than those of larger, more
diversified companies.

The performance of the Texas economy affects sales of STRS'
properties and consequently has an impact on the income derived
from STRS' real estate activities and the underlying values of
property owned by STRS. While the Texas economy has remained
healthy in recent years, current concerns relating to the oil and
gas industry may have a negative effect on this trend.

Natural Risks. STRS' performance may be adversely affected by
weather conditions that delay development or damage property.

YEAR 1999, CIK 28630, ______________________________

ITEM 1.1% 3.3% 3.9% (53.1%) 12.5%
 


The following tables set forth, by operating segment, revenues, operating
income, operating margin and the percentage increase or decrease of those items
as compared with the prior period:




ESG PERCENT CHANGES
 1999 vs 1998 vs
Years Ended March 31, 1999 1998 1997 1998 1997
 
REVENUES $123,558 $95,054 $81,157 30.0% 17.1%
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE AMORTIZATION
 OF GOODWILL AND RELATED INTANGIBLES $ 9,497 $ 9,481 $ 6,405 0.2% 48.0%
OPERATING INCOME $ 9,292 $ 9,454 $ 6,348 (1.7%) 48.9%
OPERATING MARGIN 7.5% 9.9% 7.8% (24.4%) 27.2%
 

 -24-









DSG PERCENT CHANGES
 1999 vs 1998 vs
Years Ended March 31, 1999 1998 1997 1998 1997
 
REVENUES $ 19,460 $25,307 $22,255 (23.1%) 13.7%
OPERATING (LOSS) INCOME BEFORE AMORTIZATION
 OF GOODWILL AND RELATED INTANGIBLES $ (1,964) $ 2,252 $ 4,843 (187.2%) (53.5%)
OPERATING (LOSS) INCOME $ (2,526) $ 1,681 $ 4,541 (250.3%) (63.0%)
OPERATING MARGIN (13.0%) 6.6% 20.4% (295.4%) (67.4%)
 




EOSG PERCENT CHANGES
 1999 vs 1998 vs
Years Ended March 31, 1999 1998 1997 1998 1997
 
REVENUES $ 78,186 $31,396 $25,134 149.0% 24.9%
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE AMORTIZATION OF
 GOODWILL AND RELATED INTANGIBLES $ 5,296 $ 1,270 $ 1,431 317.0% (11.3%)
OPERATING INCOME $ 3,661 $ 1,134 $ 1,295 222.8% (12.4%)
OPERATING MARGIN 4.7% 3.6% 5.2% 29.6% (29.9%)
 





FSCG PERCENT CHANGES
 1999 vs 1998 vs
Years Ended March 31, 1999 1998 1997 1998 1997
 
REVENUES $ 52,224 $37,387 $11,597 39.7% 222.4%
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE AMORTIZATION OF
 GOODWILL AND RELATED INTANGIBLES $ 5,457 $ 2,344 $ 916 132.8% 155.9%
OPERATING INCOME $ 4,608 $ 1,847 $ 690 149.5% 167.7%
OPERATING MARGIN 8.8% 4.9% 5.9% 78.6% (17.0%)
 

COMPARISON OF FISCAL 1999 WITH FISCAL 1998 revenue growth was attributable
primarily to increased shipments of the military display workstations
and coastal surveillance systems. Fiscal 1999 revenues included approximately
$7.0 million from NAI following the merger in February 1999. The decrease in
 operating income and operating margin resulted primarily from a shift in
revenue mix in the current year to a higher percentage of revenues from the
AN/UYQ-70 Advanced Display System tactical workstation (Q-70) program with the
U.S. Navy. Margins are generally lower on the Q-70 program compared with certain
other product lines, due to its significant commercial off-the-shelf (COTS)
component content.

 The decrease in revenues at DSG resulted from the continuing effects of the
sluggish global computer disk drive marketplace and competitive pricing pressure
on certain other magnetic tape head products. DSG has experienced delays in
orders expected from major customers and, more recently, postponements of
existing orders, resulting from these market conditions. The decrease in 
operating income and operating margin was the result of lower revenues and
margins attributable to pricing pressure and less favorable absorption of fixed
operating expenses. These results also included charges incurred in September
1998 of approximately $0.5 million for costs relating to the closing of its
Dassel, Minnesota facility and reserves for certain receivables and inventory,
necessitated by the bankruptcy filing of a significant customer. In November
1998, DSG implemented a 25% reduction in its work force in its San Jose,
California operation in response to the decrease in sales volume. DSG intends to
continue its cost reduction efforts in general and in response to market
conditions.

 The increase in revenues at EOSG was attributable to the acquisition of the
EOS Business in October 1998, and the acquisition of DRS Hadland in March 1998.
These increases were partially offset by the continued delay in shipping
boresight systems, resulting from the complaint filed against an employee of DRS
Photronics, Inc. (Photronics). To date, no claim has been made or threatened
against the Company or Photronics. The Company cannot predict when such
shipments will resume; however, these delays are expected to impact fiscal
 first quarter results. Operating results for the fiscal year ended March
31, 1998 reflect the effect of a second quarter restructuring charge of
$471,000, associated with the relocation of the boresight operations
from Hauppauge, New York to Oakland, New Jersey. The increases in operating
income and margins in fiscal 1999 were primarily due to the acquisitions
mentioned above.

 revenue growth was attributable to shipments of the flight
safety and communications products and to revenues from contract manufacturing
services, generated by the business acquired from Spar in the third quarter of
fiscal 1998. In addition, revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1999
included approximately $1.7 million relating to an equitable adjustment claim
settlement between the Company and the U.S. Navy. This settlement represented a
recovery of a portion of excess costs incurred on a contract, completed in
fiscal 1994, to develop and produce a mission data recorder playback

 -25-




DRS TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
 of Operations (continued)



support system for use with the AN/AQH-9 and AN/AQH-11 data recorders.
The excess costs incurred on this contract were charged to earnings in prior
periods. The increase in operating income and operating margin resulted from the
increase in revenues, as explained above, partially offset by decreases in the
 military data recording systems product line margins resulting from
lower revenues and a change in product mix. Operating results were impacted
adversely by a charge in the third quarter of fiscal 1999 of approximately $1.0
million for reserves against inventory in excess of current contract
requirements at the DRS Precision Echo, Inc. unit.

 Interest and other income, net was $0.9 million for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1999 as compared with $1.4 million in the prior fiscal year. Interest
and other income, net in fiscal 1998 included approximately $0.3 million from
the sale of the net assets of DRS Medical Systems in September 1997.

 Minority interest was approximately $1.0 million and $0.9 million in fiscal
1999 and 1998, respectively. The increase was due to higher operating income
generated by DRS Laurel Technologies unit, in which the Company has an 80%
interest.

 Interest and related expenses were approximately $9.4 million and $5.1
million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 1999 and 1998. The increase was
primarily attributable to debt associated with the EOS Acquisition and the Spar
Acquisition in October 1998 and 1997, respectively. The increase in interest
expense was also due, in part, to higher average working capital borrowings in
fiscal 1999.

 The effective tax rate was 37% and 34% in the fiscal years ended
March 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The lower effective tax rate for fiscal
1998 included the effect of a one-time benefit associated with the utilization
of a U.S. Federal capital loss carryforward (see Results of Operations --
Comparison of Fiscal 1998 with Fiscal 1997). The fiscal 1999 effective tax rate
reflected the effect of U.S. tax return benefits that were not recognized
previously for financial statement purposes. The fiscal 1999 effective rate also
reflected the effect of lower average foreign statutory tax rates, as domestic
earnings were proportionately less than fiscal 1998. The effective tax
rate is expected to increase as domestic earnings improve.

 DRS recorded an extraordinary charge of approximately $2.3 million, net of
tax, in the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 1998 in connection with a
modification of the credit facility (see Financial Condition and
Liquidity -- Working Capital).

COMPARISON OF FISCAL 1998 WITH FISCAL 1997 Revenues from ESG for the fiscal year
ended March 31, 1998 increased 17.1% to $95.1 million from $81.2 million in
fiscal 1997. The revenue growth was attributable primarily to increased
shipments of the military display workstations and coastal surveillance
systems. operating income for fiscal 1998 increased 48.9% to $9.5 million,
compared with $6.3 million reported in the prior year. Operating margins were
9.9% and 7.8% for the fiscal years ended March 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
The increase in operating income and operating margin in fiscal 1998
resulted from the overall increase in revenues, coupled with operating
efficiencies and the net cost savings derived from the consolidation and
transfer of certain of the military display product lines to its
Gaithersburg, Maryland operation.

 Revenues from DSG for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998 increased 13.7%
to $25.3 million from $22.3 million in fiscal 1997. The increase in revenues was
attributable primarily to increased shipments of the computer disk drive
head products (disk head products), as well as revenues from shipments of
magnetic heads products generated by businesses acquired in fiscal 1997. 
operating income for fiscal 1998 decreased 63.0% to $1.7 million, compared with
$4.5 million reported in fiscal 1997. Operating margins were 6.6% and 20.4% for
the fiscal years ended March 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The decrease in
 operating income and operating margin was primarily the result of
increased general and administrative costs and pricing pressure on its disk head
products. Lower margins reflected the effects of declining orders in the second
half of fiscal 1998 related to the general downturn and consolidation in the
computer disk drive industry. Higher general and administrative expenses were
attributable to the marketing and product development efforts, as well
as to the delayed start up of the Bulgarian operation.

 Revenues from EOSG for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998 increased 24.9%
to $31.4 million from $25.1 million in fiscal 1997. The increase in revenues was
attributable primarily to increased shipments of the electro-optical
systems product lines and to revenues from the acquisition of DRS Hadland in
March 1998. operating income for fiscal 1998 decreased 12.4% to $1.1
million, compared with $1.3 million in the prior year. Operating margins were
3.6% and 5.2% for the fiscal years ended March 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
The decrease in operating income and operating margin in fiscal 1998
reflected the effect of restructuring and other costs related to the closure of
the Hauppauge, New York facility and relocation of its operations to
Oakland, New Jersey.

 revenues and operating income increased 222.4% and 167.7%,
respectively, in fiscal 1998. Operating margins were 4.9% and 5.6% in the fiscal
years ended March 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Results for fiscal 1998
include

 -26






those of FS&C from the date of its acquisition in October 1997. Revenues from
FS&C were $13.4 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998 and were
attributable primarily to shipments of flight safety and communications products
and from contract manufacturing services. The increase in revenues was also
attributable to increased shipments of the military data storage and
recording products. Operating margins decreased due mainly to higher
company-sponsored research and development expenditures during the year for new
8mm recording products.

 Consolidated revenues in fiscal 1998 and 1997 included approximately $1.7
million and $3.4 million, respectively, from DRS Medical Systems. Substantially
all of the net assets of DRS Medical Systems were sold on September 12, 1997.
Operating income of the Partnership was not significant to the consolidated
results of operations of the Company in fiscal 1998 and 1997.

 Interest and related expenses increased 41.9% to $5.1 million for the
fiscal year ended March 31, 1998, as compared with $3.6 million in the prior
fiscal year. The increase was attributable primarily to the increase in debt
associated with the acquisition of FS&C and higher average working capital
borrowings.

 Interest and other income, net increased by approximately $0.7 million, or
97.3%, in fiscal 1998 to $1.4 million. This increase principally was due to the
interest earned on higher average cash balances primarily resulting from cash
acquired with FS&C.

 Minority interest increased from $0.4 million in fiscal 1997 to $0.9
million in fiscal 1998. The increase was due to the continued growth of the DRS
Laurel Technologies partnership (DRS Laurel), in which the Company has an 80%
interest. DRS Laurel manufactures many of the military display
workstations.

 The effective tax rates for the fiscal years ended March 31, 1998
and 1997 were 34% and 39%, respectively. The lower effective income tax rate in
fiscal 1998 reflected the benefit of the utilization of U.S. Federal capital
loss carryforwards against the capital gain resulting from the sale of the
 Hauppauge, New York facility, combined with the effect of lower
overall effective tax rates of newly acquired foreign operations. The provision
for income taxes included all estimated income taxes payable to federal, state
and foreign governments, as applicable.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Cash and Cash Flow: Cash and cash equivalents
at March 31, 1999 and 1998 represented approximately 3% and 6%, respectively, of
total assets. During the fiscal year, cash increased by approximately $0.5
million. Cash flow from operations totaled $15.2 million, which included $14.9
million in net advance payments relating to the Q-70 program. Beginning in March
1999, these advance payments are being liquidated against associated progress
billings through August 1999. Net cash flow from operations were net of
approximately $8.0 million and $3.6 million for interest and income tax
payments, respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities for the fiscal
year was $46.5 million, including net proceeds from acquisition-related
borrowings of $47.1 million. Approximately $6.2 million was used for repayments
of long-term debt, which included approximately $5.0 million for the retirement
of the 8 1/2% convertible subordinated debentures at maturity. Working
capital borrowings under the credit facility were $8.0 million and
$5.1 million as of March 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Cash used in investing
activities totaled $60.9 million, which included $54.2 million for acquisitions
and $6.9 million for capital expenditures.

 Working Capital: Working capital as of March 31, 1999 was $13.5 million, a
decrease of $28.6 million, or 68.0%, from the prior year-end level. This
decrease was directly related to liabilities recorded in connection with the EOS
Acquisition. Approximately $28.5 million was provided for estimated costs in
excess of contract value on acquired contracts. In addition, approximately $10.9
million was recorded, representing estimate of normal profits
(operating income) to be earned in connection with the completion of acquired
contracts and related work-in-process as of the acquisition date.

 In connection with the acquisition of the EOS Business on October 20, 1998,
the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a $150 million secured
credit facility (Facility) with Mellon Bank, N.A., consisting of two term loans:
the first in the principal amount of $30 million (First Term Loan), and the
second in the principal amount of $50 million (Second Term Loan); and a
revolving line of credit (Line of Credit) for $70 million, subject to a
borrowing base calculation. As of March 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company had
approximately $38.4 million and $10.8 million, respectively, of additional
available credit after satisfaction of its borrowing base requirement. The
maturity dates of the First Term Loan and the Second Term Loan are October 20,
2003 and October 20, 2005, respectively, with quarterly principal payments
beginning on June 30, 1999. The Line of Credit matures on October 20, 2003. The
Facility amended, restated and replaced the existing $60 million
secured credit facility consisting of a $20 million term loan and a $40 million
revolving line of credit. The Second Term Loan was used to finance a portion of
the acquisition of the EOS Business. The First Term Loan was used to refinance
the debt associated with the acquisition of DRS Flight Safety and
Communications, completed in the third quarter of fiscal 1998. The Line of
Credit is available for working capital, general corporate purposes and
acquisitions. The Facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of the
Company. Borrowings can be made in United States dollars at rates based on LIBOR
(London Interbank Offering Rate) or


 -27-



DRS TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
 of Operations (continued)


United States Prime or in Canadian dollars at rates based on LIBOR, Canadian
Prime or the Canadian Bankers Acceptance Rate. The Facility contains certain
covenants and restrictions, including maintenance of a minimum level of
consolidated net worth, a restriction on the payment of dividends on the capital
stock of the Company, a limitation on the issuance of additional debt and
certain other restrictions. As of March 31, 1999, the Company was in compliance
with all covenants.

 For accounting purposes, the modification of the Facility was accounted for
as an extinguishment of debt pursuant to the guidance of the Emerging Issues
Task Force of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (Issue No. 96-19).
Accordingly, the unamortized balance of deferred financing costs relating to the
previous credit facility, plus fees paid in connection with the modification,
were recorded as an extraordinary charge in the amount of $2,306,000, net of
tax, in the third quarter of fiscal 1999.

 With the new Facility described above, the Company believes that its
present working capital position and available bank financing are sufficient to
support its current operational needs, as well as its near-term business
objectives.

 Total Assets: During the year, total assets increased by $166.9 million, or
102.1%, as compared with March 31, 1998, primarily due to the EOS Acquisition
and the NAI Merger. With respect to the EOS Acquisition, the Company acquired
approximately $88.1 million in total assets, including $4.4 million in net
accounts receivable, $6.5 million in net inventory and $11.9 million in fixed
assets. In accounting for this acquisition, the Company provided $39.4 million
for unearned income and future estimated costs on existing Focal Plane Array and
certain other contracts. Based on the purchase price of $45.0 million, the
excess of purchase price over net assets acquired and the appraised value of
certain identified intangible assets totaled approximately $65.3 million
(including approximately $2.0 million for closing costs). Total assets also
increased by $44.2 as a result of the NAI Merger. As of the effective date of
the merger, NAI had approximately $8.4 million in net inventory and $4.9 million
of net accounts receivable. The excess of the value of consideration exchanged
over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired was approximately $28.2
million (including approximately $2.8 million for professional fees and related
closing costs).

 Accounts Receivable: Accounts receivable, net, excluding amounts from
acquired businesses, increased by approximately $20.9 million in fiscal 1999,
primarily due to increased revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999. At
March 31, 1999 and 1998, accounts receivable included $0.8 million arising from
retainage provisions in certain contracts, primarily with the Canadian and
British governments, which may not be collected within one year.

 Inventories: Inventories, excluding amounts from acquired businesses,
increased by approximately $23.1 million from March 31, 1998, due primarily to
increases in production activities, particularly with respect to the EOS
Business.

 Debt: Total debt outstanding increased by approximately $48.0 million
during the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998 to $117.1 million, primarily due to
the borrowings associated with the EOS Acquisition. The Company has become
increasingly leveraged in recent years, as many of its acquisitions have been
financed with convertible debt securities and bank debt. Despite the increase in
long-term debt this fiscal year, the ratio of long-term debt (excluding current
installments) to total capitalization increased only slightly from 56.0% at
March 31, 1998 to 58.2% at March 31, 1999, primarily due to the offsetting
effect of equity issued in connection with the NAI Merger.

 Stockholders' Equity: Net stockholders' equity increased by approximately
$29.1 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 1999 to approximately $73.4
million, primarily as a result of the exchange of shares in the NAI Merger.

 Backlog: Backlog at March 31, 1999 was approximately $365.8 million, as
compared with $177.4 million at March 31, 1998. The Company booked $322.3
million in new orders in fiscal 1999. The increase in backlog was due to the net
effect of bookings, partially offset by revenues together with the addition of
approximately $140.4 million of backlog added as a result the EOS Acquisition
and the NAI Merger.

 Due to the general nature of defense procurement and contracting, the
operating cycle for the military business typically has been long
term. Military backlog currently consists of various production and development
contracts with varying delivery schedules and project timetables. However, there
has been a recent trend in the backlog to include a higher percentage
of commercial product orders and COTS-based systems for the military, both of
which favor shorter delivery times. Accordingly, revenues for a particular year,
or year-to-year comparisons of reported revenues and related backlog positions,
may not be indicative of future results.

FREE CASH FLOW (Dollars in millions)

99 19.6
98 15.3
97 12.7
96 6.2
95 5.6

 -28-






 Of the $322.3 million in new contract awards booked in fiscal 1999, ESG
secured $124.3 million in new contracts, including significant awards of
approximately $70.0 million in additional production and engineering contracts
for AN/UYQ-70 Advanced Display Systems; $6.6 million for cables and wire
harnesses for the Bradley M2A3 Infantry Fighting Vehicles; $6.2 million
for AN/SPS-67 Radar Systems; $5.9 million for littoral surveillance systems;
$5.9 million for Replacement Data Storage Systems; $4.5 million for combat
display emulators; and $4.2 million on the Joint-STARS program. DSG booked $21.3
million in new business in fiscal 1999, consisting of $11.9 million for its
specialty magnetic head products and $9.4 million for tape head products. EOSG
booked awards of $121.0 million in fiscal 1999, including awards totaling $55.9
million from the U.S. Army to provide Horizontal Technology Integration Second
Generation Forward Looking Infrared (HTI SGF) Thermal Imaging Systems for the
sighting systems of the Abrams M1A2 System Enhancement Package (SEP) and Bradley
M2A3 fighting vehicles, $24.2 million for Improved Bradley Acquisition Systems
(IBAS) for the new Bradley M2A3 fighting vehicles, and $6.6 million to provide
Standard Advanced Dewar Assemblies Type II (SADA II) for the tracking and
imaging systems on a variety of platforms, including the M2A3 Bradley and the
M1A2 Abrams vehicles. These awards were booked by the new DRS Sensor
Systems and DRS Infrared Technologies units. Other significant EOSG awards for
the year included $12.0 million for high-speed digital imaging systems; $2.7
million to produce upper optics modules for optical laser surgery equipment; and
$3.6 million for Multi-Platform Boresight Equipment (MPBE), including a $2.1
million award for the Hawk 100 Series Light Attack aircraft, the first
application of MPBE systems for a European fixed-wing aircraft platform. FSCG
received a total of $55.8 million in fiscal 1999, including approximately $19.4
million for advanced manufacturing services, $11.5 million for flight incident
recorders and locator beacons, $8.6 million for shipboard communications systems
and $6.3 million for 8mm military data recorders for use on F/A-18, A-10 and
other fixed-wing aircraft.

 Internal Research and Development: In addition to customer-sponsored
research and development, the Company also engages in internal research and
development (IR&D). IR&D expenditures reflect the continued investment
in new technology and diversification of its products. Expenditures for IR&D in
fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997 were $5.2 million, $4.0 million and $3.9 million,
respectively.

 Business Considerations: The Company primarily is engaged in the design and
manufacture of high-technology systems and products used for the processing,
display and storage of electronic data. Although DRS has diversified into
commercial products and markets, a significant portion of the revenues
continues to be derived directly or indirectly from defense industry contracts
with the U.S. Government. In recent years, the Federal defense budget has been
reduced dramatically in inflation-adjusted terms. However, the overall level of
spending for defense electronics has increased, given the nature of modern
warfare and its increasing reliance on sophisticated weaponry and support
systems. In addition, the U.S. Government has determined that it is often more
cost effective to retrofit and upgrade existing weapons platforms than to
replace them. These factors have affected the nature and extent of defense
procurement and have precipitated a consolidation of the defense industry and a
focus principally on cost competitiveness and efficiency of operations. DRS has
participated successfully in this industry consolidation through strategic
business acquisitions and by streamlining its existing operations. The Company
also has focused on supporting and improving existing products and programs, as
well as identifying opportunities to develop and manufacture new products.

 The defense electronics sector is characterized by rapid technological
change. The nature of modern warfare also has changed, with increasing reliance
on timely and accurate battlefield information, both to ensure that increasingly
costly assets are deployed efficiently and to minimize the destruction of
non-military targets. In response to these factors, as well as to a 1992 mandate
by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Company focuses on COTS product designs,
whereby commercial electronic components are integrated, adapted, upgraded and
"ruggedized" for applications in harsh military environments. Using COTS
designs, the Company is able to develop and deliver its products with
significantly less development time and expense compared with traditional
military product cycles. The COTS approach generally results in shorter lead
times, lower product costs and the employment of the latest available
information and computing technologies. The design and manufacture of COTS-based
products is a complex process requiring specific engineering capabilities,
extensive knowledge of military platforms in which the equipment will be
installed and an in-depth understanding of military operating environments and
requirements. The Company believes that it has the XX and technical
expertise required to address the technological challenges confronting the
defense electronics sector.

INTERNAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (Dollars in millions)

99 5.2
98 4.0
97 3.9
96 0.6
95 0.8

 -29-




DRS TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
 of Operations (continued)


 The Company is subject to other inherent risks associated with defense
contracting, including changes in government policies and dependence on
Congressional support, primarily for appropriations and allocation of funds to
products and programs supported by the Company. In recent years, the 
products and programs have been well supported. However, uncertainty exists with
respect to the size and scope of future defense budgets and their possible
impact on existing or future products and programs. Further, the 
existing defense contracts are subject to termination, either at the convenience
of the customer or as a result of cancellation of funding. The 
contracts and operations also are subject to governmental oversight,
particularly with respect practices, contract performance and cost
accounting practices. Governmental investigations may lead to claims against the
Company, the outcome of which cannot be predicted. As described in Note 10 of
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in fiscal 1999, the Government
commenced a case against an employee of DRS Photronics, Inc., a subsidiary of
the Company, relating to the accuracy of test data. To date, no claim has been
made or threatened against the Company or the subsidiary. The subsidiary is
currently unable to ship certain equipment related to the case, resulting in
delays in the recognition of revenues. At this time, the Company is
unable to quantify the effect of the delayed shipments on its future results of
operations or financial position, or to predict when such shipments ultimately
will be made, although the delays are expected to impact fiscal 2000 first
quarter results.

 The additions of international businesses involve additional risks for the
Company, such as exposure to currency fluctuations, future investment
obligations and changes in foreign economic and political environments. In
addition, international transactions frequently involve increased financial and
legal risks arising from stringent contractual terms and conditions and widely
differing legal systems, customs and practices in foreign countries. The Company
expects that international sales as a percentage of the overall sales of the
Company will continue to increase in future years as a result of, among other
factors, the growth strategy and continuing changes in the United
States defense industry.

 DRS has continued to grow despite these circumstances and conditions.
However, future growth will be dependent on the ability to adapt to
these and other changing market and industry conditions.

 Inflation: The Company has experienced the effects of inflation through
increased costs of labor, services and raw materials. Although a majority of the
 revenues are derived from long-term contracts, the selling prices of
such contracts generally reflect estimated costs to be incurred in the
applicable future periods.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In April 1998, the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position (SOP) No. 98-5,
"Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up Activities." This accounting standard, which
is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1998, provides
authoritative guidance on accounting and financial reporting related to costs of
start-up activities. This SOP requires that, at the effective date of adoption,
costs of start-up activities previously capitalized be expensed and reported as
a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, and further requires
that such costs subsequent to adoption be expensed as incurred. The Company does
not anticipate the effect of adopting this standard to be material to the
 consolidated results of operations.

 In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS 133). SFAS 133 provides authoritative
guidance on accounting and financial reporting for derivative instruments,
including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts
(collectively referred to as derivatives), and for hedging activities. The
Statement requires the recognition of all derivatives as either assets or
liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet, and the periodic measurement of
those instruments at fair value. The classification of gains and losses
resulting from changes in the fair values of derivatives is dependent on the
intended use of the derivative and its resulting designation. Upon adoption of
this standard, existing hedging relationships, if any, must be designated anew
and documented pursuant to the provisions of the Statement. Based on the
 fiscal calendar and the current requirements of SFAS 133, this
standard must be adopted no later than April 1, 2000. Adoption of SFAS 133 is
not expected to have a material impact on the financial position or
results of operations.

EURO CONVERSION On January 1, 1999, 11 of the 15 member countries of the
European Union established permanent, fixed conversion rates between their
existing currencies and the European common currency called the "Euro".

 The transition period for the introduction of the Euro is scheduled to
phase in over a period ending January 1, 2002, with existing currencies being
removed completely from circulation on July 1, 2002. The Company currently does
not have significant transactions denominated in Euro-related currencies. This
is not expected to change in the foreseeable future. Therefore, the Company
believes the introduction of the Euro and the phasing out of the other
currencies will not have a material impact on the consolidated
financial statements.

 -30-






YEAR 2000 DRS has initiated a Year 2000 readiness plan focused on identification
and remediation of information processes which may not function correctly at the
beginning of the Year 2000. The plan, developed as a company-wide effort and
directed by a corporate Year 2000 committee, monitors the DRS operating groups'
performance as the groups proceed through the phases of awareness, assessment
and remediation.

 Each DRS operating group has appointed its own Year 2000 project staff,
responsible for implementation of the plan and for reporting progress and costs
to the corporate Year 2000 committee. This committee, in turn, reports the
 overall Year 2000 status to the Board of Directors. The 
overall status is, therefore, a composite of the compliance efforts of the DRS
operating groups. On an aggregate basis, DRS estimates that the costs of its
Year 2000 readiness will total approximately $1.5 million, of which
approximately $500,000 has been spent to date. Although the various operating
groups are currently at varying phases of the readiness process, the Company
expects that information systems will be protected from material failure by
mid-1999 and that Company products will have achieved such readiness by October
1999.

 Within each DRS operating group, the Year 2000 effort is directed towards:
 IT Systems (which examines operating systems and business application
software); External Agents (which examines third-party suppliers and
customers); and Product Issues (which examines Year 2000 issues inherent in
products sold by DRS).

 The IT Systems section evaluates hardware and systems software. DRS has
substantially completed its evaluation of its main internal operating systems
and business application software. As a result of this evaluation, DRS has begun
the process of implementing the necessary changes in its internal systems to
achieve Year 2000 compliance in this area. Based on the current schedule, the
 IT Systems are expected to be Year 2000 compliant by October 1999.

 The External Agents section includes the process of identifying and
prioritizing critical suppliers and customers at the direct interface level and
communicating with them about their plans and progress in addressing the Year
2000 problem. Year 2000 compliance issues at critical suppliers create risk for
DRS since their inability to operate effectively could impact our business.
Possible problems for DRS could include isolated performance problems with
manufacturing or administrative systems, isolated interruption of deliveries
from critical suppliers and product liability issues. The consequences of these
issues may include increases in manufacturing and administrative costs until the
problems are resolved, lost revenues, lower cash receipts and product liability.
DRS does not have control over these third parties and, as a result, cannot
currently estimate to what extent the future operating results of may be
adversely affected by the failure of these third parties to address successfully
their Year 2000 issues. Failure by critical suppliers and customers (in
particular, the U.S. Government, on which DRS is materially dependent), however,
to achieve Year 2000 compliance in a timely manner could have a material adverse
effect on the operations. Evaluations of critical third parties have
been initiated and should be completed by mid-1999. These evaluations will be
followed by corrective actions and the development of contingency plans, if
considered necessary.

 The Product Issues section includes the process of identifying any products
sold by DRS which may not be Year 2000 compliant, determining a corrective
course of action and disseminating information with respect thereto to
customers. Although many of products that have integrated software are
Year 2000 compliant, there can be no assurances that all of products are
currently Year 2000 compliant. costs to achieve Year 2000 compliance will
include the costs and expenses of fulfilling warranty obligations on
non-compliant products. Detailed evaluations of certain products have been
initiated, and completion of this phase of the Year 2000 project
should be completed by mid-1999. These evaluations will be followed by
corrective actions and the development of contingency plans, if considered
necessary.

 At a projected $1.5 million, total costs associated with required IT
Systems modifications to become Year 2000 compliant are not expected to have a
material effect on the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or
financial position of DRS. To the extent recoverable under the terms of
contracts with its customers, compliance costs will be included in
establishing prices for the products and services, and, therefore,
will be reflected in the revenues and costs and expenses.
Uncertainties exist, however, as to ability to detect in a timely manner
all Year 2000 problems, as well as its ability to achieve successful and timely
resolution of all Year 2000 issues. Consequently, there can be no assurances as
to the amount of total cost associated with implementing Year 2000 project
and, as a result, the effect of such cost on the consolidated result of
operations, cash flows or financial position of DRS.

 The failure to correct a material Year 2000 problem could result in an
interruption in, or a failure of, certain normal business activities or
operations. Such failures could materially and adversely affect results of
operations, liquidity and financial condition. Due to the general uncertainty
inherent in the Year 2000 problem, resulting in part from the uncertainty of the
Year 2000 readiness of third-party suppliers and customers, DRS is unable to
determine at this time whether the consequences of Year 2000 failure will have a
material impact on results of operations, liquidity or financial
condition. DRS implemented its Year 2000 project with the intention of
significantly reducing level of risk regarding the Year 2000 problem. DRS
expects that if its Year 2000 project is completed as scheduled, the risk of
significant interruptions of normal operations should be reduced.


 -31-




DRS TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



March 31, 1999 1998
 
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS $ 10,154,000 $ 9,673,000
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET (NOTE 3) 76,135,000 47,273,000
INVENTORIES, NET OF PROGRESS PAYMENTS (NOTE 4) 72,907,000 38,637,000
PREPAID EXPENSES, DEFERRED INCOME TAXES AND OTHER
 CURRENT ASSETS (NOTE 8) 4,316,000 1,849,000
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 163,512,000 97,432,000
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, AT COST (NOTE 5) 72,893,000 55,429,000
LESS ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION 38,730,000 32,457,000
NET PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 34,163,000 22,972,000
GOODWILL AND RELATED INTANGIBLE ASSETS, LESS ACCUMULATED
 AMORTIZATION OF $9,163,000 AND $6,061,000 AT MARCH 31, 1999
 AND 1998, RESPECTIVELY 122,335,000 33,070,000
DEFERRED INCOME TAXES AND OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS (NOTE 8) 10,334,000 9,999,000
TOTAL ASSETS $330,344,000 $163,473,000
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
CURRENT INSTALLMENTS OF LONG-TERM DEBT (NOTES 2 AND 7) $ 5,844,000 $ 7,514,000
SHORT-TERM BANK DEBT (NOTE 7) 9,169,000 5,100,000
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 42,470,000 23,179,000
ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES (NOTE 6) 92,538,000 19,513,000
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 150,021,000 55,306,000
LONG-TERM DEBT, EXCLUDING CURRENT INSTALLMENTS (NOTES 2 AND 7) 102,091,000 56,532,000
DEFERRED INCOME TAXES (NOTE 8) -- 3,897,000
OTHER NONCURRENT LIABILITIES (NOTES 9 AND 10) 4,790,000 3,403,000
TOTAL LIABILITIES 256,902,000 119,138,000

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (NOTES 7 AND 9)
PREFERRED STOCK, NO PAR VALUE. AUTHORIZED 2,000,000 SHARES;
 NONE ISSUED AT MARCH 31, 1999 AND 1998 -- --
COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE PER SHARE. AUTHORIZED 20,000,000 SHARES;
 ISSUED 9,615,933 AND 6,596,237 SHARES AT MARCH 31, 1999
 AND 1998, RESPECTIVELY 96,000 66,000
ADDITIONAL PAID-IN CAPITAL 48,038,000 19,399,000
RETAINED EARNINGS 27,737,000 27,057,000
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSSES (139,000) (135,000)
TREASURY STOCK, AT COST: 385,164 AND 402,461 SHARES OF
 COMMON STOCK AT MARCH 31, 1999 AND 1998, RESPECTIVELY (1,493,000) (1,561,000)
UNAMORTIZED RESTRICTED STOCK COMPENSATION (797,000) (491,000)
NET STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 73,442,000 44,335,000
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (NOTE 10)
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY $330,344,000 $163,473,000


See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

 -32-



DRS TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS





Years Ended March 31, 1999 1998 1997
 
REVENUES $273,428,000 $190,854,000 $143,578,000
COSTS AND EXPENSES (NOTE 4) 259,183,000 176,595,000 130,996,000
OPERATING INCOME 14,245,000 14,259,000 12,582,000
INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME, NET (876,000) (1,377,000) (698,000)
INTEREST AND RELATED EXPENSES 9,358,000 5,098,000 3,592,000
EARNINGS BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY ITEM, MINORITY INTERESTS
 AND INCOME TAXES 5,763,000 10,538,000 9,688,000
MINORITY INTERESTS 1,021,000 874,000 404,000
EARNINGS BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY ITEM AND INCOME TAXES 4,742,000 9,664,000 9,284,000
INCOME TAXES (NOTE 8) 1,756,000 3,292,000 3,621,000
NET EARNINGS BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY YEAR 1998, CIK 736035, ______________________________

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
 General
 
 Mego Financial Corp. (Mego Financial) is a premier developer of timeshare
properties and a provider of consumer financing to purchase timeshare intervals
and land parcels through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Preferred Equities
Corporation (PEC) established in 1970. PEC is engaged primarily in originating,
selling, servicing and financing consumer receivables generated through
timeshare and land sales. PEC markets and finances timeshare interests and land
in select resort areas. By providing financing to virtually all of its
customers, PEC also originates consumer receivables that it sells and services.
Unless the context requires otherwise, the "Company" refers to Mego Financial
and its consolidated subsidiaries.
 
 In 1992, Mego Financial organized a subsidiary, Mego Mortgage Corporation
(MMC), which has been a specialized consumer finance company that originates,
purchases, sells, securitizes and services consumer loans consisting primarily
of conventional uninsured home improvement and debt consolidation loans. After
an initial public offering (the IPO) of MMC common stock in November 1996, Mego
Financial held 81.3% of the outstanding stock of MMC. On September 2, 1997, Mego
Financial distributed all of its remaining 10,000,000 shares of common
stock to Mego shareholders in a tax-free spin-off (the Spin-off).
See Notes 3 and 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, 7.
 Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations (MD&A) -- Discontinued Operations of MMC" and 13. Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions." Since the Spin-off, PEC has represented
substantially all of Mego operations.
 
 The Company was incorporated under the laws of the state of New York in
1954 under the name Mego Corp. and, in 1992, changed its name to Mego Financial
Corp. In January 1988, the Company sold a controlling interest in the Company
consisting of approximately 43% of the then outstanding common stock after the
sale, to affiliates of the Assignors (as hereinafter defined). See 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" and Note 2 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. In February 1988, the Company acquired PEC,
pursuant to an assignment by the Assignors (Comay Corp., GRI, RRE Corp., and H&H
Financial Inc.) of their contract right to purchase PEC. The executive
offices are located at 4310 Paradise Road, Las Vegas, Nevada, and its telephone
number is (702) 737-3700.
 
 Recent Events
 
 On March 27, 1998, the Company announced that it had entered into a
definitive merger agreement (the Merger Agreement) under which it was to be
acquired by Sycamore Partners, LLC (Sycamore). Sycamore was to be financed by
Blackacre Capital Group, L.P., a real estate investment fund. Under the terms of
the Merger Agreement, the shareholders were to receive a minimum of
$5.71 per share up to an estimated maximum of $5.75 per share. After further
communication and negotiation, on September 9, 1998, the Company announced that,
as a result of breaches by Sycamore, it had terminated the Merger Agreement.
Subsequently, on October 12, 1998, the Company received the $300,000 Liquidated
Damages Payment called for in the Merger Agreement.
 
 On October 6, 1998, the Company announced that it has retained Friedman,
Billings, Ramsey & Co., Inc. to review strategic alternatives available to the
Company, including potential offers, mergers and financing transactions.
 
PREFERRED EQUITIES CORPORATION
 
 General
 
 PEC acquires, develops and converts rental and condominium apartment
buildings and hotels for sale as timeshare interests and engages in the retail
sale of land. strategy is to acquire properties in desirable destination
resort areas that offer a range of recreational activities and amenities. As
part of its strategic plan, PEC has shifted its emphasis from sales of land to
sales of timeshare interests due both to its diminishing
 
 1
 4
 
inventory of land available for sale in Nevada and its increasing inventory of
timeshare interests from the opening of new timeshare resorts. PEC markets and
sells timeshare interests in its resorts in Las Vegas and Reno, Nevada;
Honolulu, Hawaii; Brigantine, New Jersey; Steamboat Springs, Colorado; Indian
Shores and Orlando, Florida; and sells land in Nevada and Colorado. PEC owns
additional properties in Steamboat Springs, Colorado and Las Vegas, Nevada which
are in the permitting process for construction for sale as timeshare interests
and is considering the purchase of additional properties for use in its
timeshare operations. Also, PEC owns property in Biloxi, Mississippi which it is
considering for the possible construction of a future timeshare resort. In
recent years, several major lodging, hospitality and entertainment companies,
including The Walt Disney Company, Hilton Hotels Corporation, Marriott Ownership
Resorts, Inc. and Hyatt Corporation, among others, have commenced developing and
marketing timeshare interests in various resort properties. The Company believes
that the entry into the timeshare industry of certain of these large and well-
known lodging, hospitality and entertainment companies has contributed to the
growth and acceptance of the industry. To enhance its competitive position, in
April 1995, PEC entered into a strategic alliance with Ramada Franchise Systems,
Inc. (Ramada) and its parent, Hospitality Franchise Systems, Inc., now Cendant
Corporation (Cendant), pursuant to which PEC was granted a ten-year (including a
renewal option) exclusive license to operate both its existing and future
timeshare properties under the name "Ramada Vacation Suites." The American
Resort Development Association (ARDA) estimates that approximately 1.8 million
families in the United States own timeshare interests in resorts worldwide and
that sales of timeshare interests in the United States aggregated approximately
$2.18 billion in 1997. Additionally, it is estimated by ARDA that sales volume
is increasing at a compounded annual rate of almost 9% due to the entry of
brand-name hospitality firms, such as Ramada, and well-financed publicly held
companies with lower costs of capital and strong growth among seasoned timeshare
companies.
 
 Timeshare Properties and Sales
 
 PEC acquires, develops and converts rental and condominium apartment
buildings and hotels for sale as timeshare interests. strategy is to
acquire properties in desirable destination resort areas that offer a range of
recreational activities and amenities. The timeshare interests offered by PEC in
its resorts other than in Hawaii generally consist of undivided fee interests in
the land and facilities comprising the property or an undivided fee interest in
a particular unit, pursuant to which the owner acquires the perpetual right to
weekly occupancy of a residence unit each year. In its resort in Hawaii, PEC
offers "right-to-use" interests, pursuant to which the owner has occupancy
rights for one week each year until December 31, 2009, the last full year of the
underlying land lease for the resort property. During fiscal 1998, 1997 and
1996, PEC sold 7,293, 7,860 and 6,982 timeshare interests, respectively, at
prices ranging from $4,250 to $30,890.
 
 The Company believes that alliance with Ramada has enabled it to
capitalize on the Ramada reputation, name recognition and customer profile,
which closely matches customer profile. The arrangement required PEC to
pay an initial access fee of $1 million and monthly recurring fees equal to 1%
of Gross Sales (as defined in the agreement) through January 1996 and 1.5%
of Gross Sales each month commencing after January 1996. The initial term
of the arrangement is 5 years and PEC has the option to renew the arrangement
for an additional term of 5 years if it has met certain conditions, including
the addition of at least 20,000 timeshare interests during the initial term,
which condition was satisfied, and the payment of minimum annual fees. In
addition to the grant of the license, the arrangement provides for the
establishment of joint marketing programs. The Company believes it has benefited
from the use of the Ramada name, but is unable to quantify the amount of such
benefit.
 
 In May 1997, PEC began offering a new sales program whereby a customer pays
a fixed fee on an installment basis to use a timeshare interest during an
initial one-year period with an option to purchase the timeshare interest. If
the customer exercises the option to purchase the interest, the fixed fee is
applied toward the down payment of the timeshare interest purchased.
 
 PEC currently operates timeshare resorts in Las Vegas and Reno, Nevada;
Honolulu, Hawaii; Brigantine, New Jersey; Steamboat Springs, Colorado; Orlando
and Indian Shores, Florida; and owns additional properties in Las Vegas, Nevada
and Steamboat Springs, Colorado which are in the permitting process for
 
 2
 5
 
construction. PEC is considering the purchase of additional properties for use
in its timeshare operations and has recently acquired property in Biloxi,
Mississippi for possible construction of a timeshare resort.
 
 Ramada Vacation Suites at Las Vegas includes 34 buildings with a
total of 471 studio units and 1 and 2 bedroom units which have been converted
for sale as 24,021 timeshare interests, of which 4,471 remained available for
sale as of August 31, 1998. The resort is in close proximity to "the Strip" in
Las Vegas and features swimming pools and other amenities. Nevada timesharing
attracts the upper end of the tourism market and Las Vegas is the most dynamic
region of the state for timeshare industry growth according to ARDA statistics.
PEC is in the process of converting additional adjacent properties it owns to
timesharing units. PEC has completed the expansion of the common areas to
include an expanded lobby, convenience store and expanded sales facilities. At
August 31, 1998, a total of 3 buildings containing 18 apartment units were under
conversion to 918 timeshare interests.
 
 The Ramada Vacation Suites at Reno consists of a 95-unit hotel that has
been converted for sale as 4,845 timeshare interests, of which 944 remained
available for sale as of August 31, 1998. The resort features an indoor swimming
pool, exercise facilities, sauna, jacuzzi and sun deck.
 
 Ramada Vacation Suites at Honolulu is an 80-unit hotel consisting of
3 buildings that have been converted for sale as 4,160 timeshare interests, of
which 456 remained available for sale as of August 31, 1998. The resort is
within walking distance of a public beach and features a swimming pool and
jacuzzi. PEC holds the buildings, equipment and furnishings under a land lease
expiring in March 2010, under which PEC makes annual rental payments of
approximately $192,000.
 
 The Ramada Vacation Suites on Brigantine Beach consists of a 91-unit hotel
and a 17-unit three story building that have been either converted or
constructed for sale as 5,508 timeshare interests, of which 701 remained
available for sale as of August 31, 1998. The resort is situated on beach front
property in close proximity to Atlantic City, New Jersey and features an
enclosed swimming pool, cocktail lounge, bar and restaurant.
 
 The Ramada Vacation Suites at Steamboat Springs consists of 60 one- and
two-bedroom units, which have been converted for sale as 3,060 timeshare
interests, of which 1,043 remained available for sale as of August 31, 1998. PEC
acquired this condominium resort in 1994 and completed the conversion in 1995.
PEC has constructed a 5,500-square foot amenities building at this facility
which features a lobby, front desk, spa and sauna.
 
 The Ramada Vacation Suites at Indian Shores consists of a 2-building
complex, which has been converted into a total of 32 one- and two-bedroom units
to be sold as 1,632 timeshare interests, of which 587 timeshare interests
remained available for sale at August 31, 1998. The resort is located on the
intercoastal waterway and is in close proximity to St. Petersburg, Florida.
 
 The Ramada Vacation Suites at Orlando consists of a 7-building complex,
five of which have been converted into 72 units for sale as 3,672 timeshare
interests. At August 31, 1998, 2,463 timeshare interests in the five buildings
remained available for sale. At August 31, 1998, 2 buildings containing 30 units
were under conversion to 1,530 timeshare interests. Florida is one of the
 most significant timeshare markets, representing 23.6% of the total
number of resorts in the United States, and, according to ARDA, has experienced
unprecedented growth.
 
 The Ramada Vacation Suites -- Hilltop is a 2-tower building complex
complete with indoor swimming pool, restaurant, cocktail lounge and meeting room
facilities. Upon completion of conversion, the complex will consist of 56 one-
and two-bedroom units to be sold as 2,856 timeshare interests. In March 1998, 14
units became available for sale as 714 timeshare interests of which 608
timeshare interests remained available for sale at August 31, 1998. At August
31, 1998, 1 building containing 42 units was under conversion to 2,142 timeshare
interests. The resort is located in Steamboat Springs, Colorado, in close
proximity to the ski slopes and attractions.
 
 3
 6
 
 The following table sets forth certain information regarding the timeshare
interests at the resort properties:
 


 STEAMBOAT INDIAN
 LAS VEGAS RENO WAIKIKI BRIGANTINE SPRINGS SHORES ORLANDO HILLTOP TOTAL
 
Maximum number of timeshare
 interests 24,021 4,845 4,160 5,508 3,060 1,632 3,672 714 47,612
Net number of timeshare interests
 sold through August 31, 1998.... 19,550 3,901 3,704 4,807 2,017 1,045 1,209 106 36,339
Number of timeshare interests
 available for sale at August 31,
 1998 4,471 944 456 701 1,043 587 2,463 608 11,273
Percent sold through August 31,
 1998 81% 81% 89% 87% 66% 64% 33% 15% 76%
Number of timeshare interests sold
 during the year ended August 31,
 1998 3,004 230 542 87 690 1,098 1,519 123 7,293
Number of timeshare interests
 reacquired during the year ended
 August 31, 1998 through:
 Contract cancellations 376 124 87 42 57 51 44 -- 781
 Exchanges 2,103 277 395 54 473 362 338 17 4,019
 Acquired for unpaid maintenance
 fees 99 44 72 34 7 -- -- -- 256
 Total number of timeshare
 interests reacquired during the
 year 2,578 445 554 130 547 413 382 17 5,056
 Net number of timeshare interests
 sold (reacquired) during the
 year ended August 31, 1998 426 (215) (12) (43) 153 685 1,137 106 2,237
Additional timeshare interests
 under development 918 -- -- -- -- -- 1,530 2,142 4,590
Sales prices of timeshare
 interests available at August
 31, 1998 range
 From $ 8,550 $ 6,650 $4,250 $ 5,550 $ 7,450 $ 8,550 $ 8,550 $ 7,390 N/A
 To $21,690 $10,690 $6,450 $13,350 $25,690 $16,060 $10,690 $30,890 N/A

 
 4,823 timeshare interests were sold by the prior developer.
 
 These exchanges are primarily related to customers exchanging and/or
 upgrading their current property to generally higher quality and higher
 priced units.
 
 PEC owns additional units under conversion or to be converted to timeshare
 interests, and are not included above. In Las Vegas, Nevada, the addition of
 18 units will be converted into 918 timeshare interests. In Steamboat
 Springs, Colorado at Hilltop, the addition of 42 units will be converted
 into 2,142 timeshare interests. In Orlando, Florida, the addition of 30
 units will be converted into 1,530 timeshare interests.
 
 For the fiscal years ended August 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, 
consolidated revenue from sales of timeshare interests was $37.7 million, $32.3
million and $27.8 million, respectively, representing approximately 55.0% 47.9%
and 45.8% of total revenues, respectively.
 
 RCI Exchange Network
 
 The attractiveness of timeshare interest ownership in resorts is enhanced
significantly by the availability of exchange networks allowing owners to
exchange their occupancy right in the resort in which they own an interest for
an occupancy right in another participating network resort. Several companies,
including Resorts Condominiums International (RCI), which became a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Cendant in 1997, provide broad-based timeshare interest exchange
networks and PEC has qualified its resort properties for participation in the
RCI network.
 
 RCI has a total of more than 3,200 participating resort facilities located
worldwide. Approximately 49.8% of the participating facilities are located in
the United States and Canada. PEC and the Owners' Association (as defined later)
of each of timeshare resorts have entered into an agreement with RCI
pursuant to which purchasers of timeshare interests in resorts may apply
for membership in the RCI exchange network. Under the terms of these agreements,
RCI agrees to make its exchange program available to customers who apply
for membership. RCI and the Owners' Association agree to promote program
and to honor qualified exchanges by members from other participating resorts.
The initial five-year terms of the
 
 4
 7
 
agreements are automatically renewable for additional five-year terms, unless
either party gives the other party at least 180 days written notice prior to the
expiration of the then current term. Either party may terminate the agreement
upon a breach of the agreement by the other party. Membership in RCI entitles
 customers, based on availability, trading potential (which is based on
their timeshare interval), and the payment of a variable exchange fee to RCI, to
exchange their occupancy right in the resort in which they own an interest, for
an occupancy right at the same or a different time in another participating
resort of similar trading potential. The cost of the subscription fee for RCI,
which is at the option and expense of the timeshare interest owner, is
approximately $63 for the first year and $74 for each annual renewal.
 
 Owners' Associations and Property Management
 
 resort properties require ongoing management services. Independent
not-for-profit corporations known as Owners' Associations have been established
to administer each of resorts other than the resort in Honolulu. 
resort in Honolulu is administered by the White Sands Resort Club, a division of
PEC (together with the Owners' Associations, collectively the Associations).
Owners of timeshare interests in each of these resorts are responsible for the
payment of annual assessment fees to the respective Association, which are
intended to fund all of the operating expenses at the resort facilities and
accumulate reserves for replacement of furnishings, fixtures and equipment, and
building maintenance. Annual assessment fees for 1998 ranged from $249 to $445.
PEC has in the past financed budget deficits of the Associations, but is not
obligated to do so in the future, except in its Florida resorts. The Public
Offering Statements for the Indian Shores and Orlando resorts contain a
provision whereby PEC guarantees that the annual assessment fees will not exceed
a specified amount, in which case PEC agrees to pay any monetary deficiencies.
These guarantees are effective through the Associations' calendar year of
December 31, 1999 and may be extended by PEC annually thereafter. In fiscal
1998, PEC financed a budget deficit of $65,000 for the Owners' Association at
Indian Shores. During fiscal 1998 and 1997, the Associations had an aggregate
excess of $1.2 million and $1.6 million, respectively, of fees received compared
to expenses paid. The deficit and/or excess position of the Associations vary
primarily due to the timing of major improvement expenditures. Any budget
deficits financed by PEC are expected to be recovered in the future by increased
assessments to the Associations.
 
 If the owner of a timeshare interest defaults in the payments of the annual
assessment fee, the Association may impose a lien on the related timeshare
interest. PEC has agreed to pay to the Associations the annual assessment fees
of timeshare interest owners who are delinquent with respect to such fees, but
have paid PEC in full for their timeshare interest. In exchange for the payment
by PEC of such fees, the Associations assign their liens for non-payment on the
respective timeshare interests to PEC. In the event the timeshare interest
holder does not satisfy the lien after having an opportunity to do so, PEC
typically acquires a quitclaim deed or forecloses on and acquires the timeshare
interest for the amount of the lien and any related foreclosure costs.
 
 PEC has entered into management arrangements with the Associations pursuant
to which PEC receives annual management and administrative fees in exchange for
providing or arranging for various property management services such as
bookkeeping, staffing, budgeting, maintenance and housekeeping services. During
fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, PEC received $2.4 million, $2.2 million and $2.1
million, respectively, of such fees from the Associations. The management
arrangements are typically for initial terms ranging from three to five years
and automatically renew for successive additional one-year terms unless canceled
by the Association. No management arrangement has been canceled to date. The
Company believes that proper management is important for maintaining customer
satisfaction and protecting investment in its inventory of unsold
timeshare interests.
 
 intent and goal is to manage these properties until all timeshare
interests are sold and the receivables generated from such sales have been paid.
However, due to cancellations, exchanges and upgrades, none of the resorts are
likely to realize a 100% sellout for an extended period of time. The Company
believes that continued management of these properties preserves the integrity
of the property and the portfolio performance on an ongoing basis beyond the end
of the sales period.
 
 5
 8
 
 Land Sales
 
 PEC is engaged in the retail sale of land in Nevada and Colorado for
residential, commercial, industrial and recreational use. PEC acquires lots and
large tracts of unimproved land and then subdivides the tracts into lots and
parcels for retail sale. Residential lots range in size from one-quarter acre to
one and one-half acres, while commercial and industrial lots vary in size. 
residential lots generally range in price from $16,000 to $47,000 while
commercial and industrial lots generally range in price from $19,000 to $79,000.
Improvements such as roads and utilities and, in some instances, amenities are
typically part of the development program in Nevada. During fiscal 1998, 1997
and 1996, PEC sold 2,091, 1,459 and 1,610 residential lots, and 12, 50 and 38
commercial and industrial lots, respectively. PEC has a continuing program to
plat various properties that it owns. Purchasers of lots and parcels frequently
exchange their property after the initial purchase for other property interests
offered by PEC. Additionally, PEC is required from time to time to cancel the
purchase of lots and parcels as a result of payment defaults or customer
cancellations following inspections of the property pursuant to contractual
provisions.
 
 To date, a substantial portion of sales of retail lots and land
parcels have been in its Calvada subdivisions, containing approximately 30,000
lots in the Pahrump Valley, in Nye County, Nevada, located approximately 60
miles west of Las Vegas. The lots are designated as single family residential,
multiple family residential, mobile home, hotel/motel, industrial or commercial.
PEC owns a utility company that provides water and sewer service to portions of
the subdivisions and two golf courses that are available to property owners and
the public. The community of Pahrump has a population of approximately 28,000
and contains an urgent care medical facility, shopping, churches, fast food
restaurants, hotel/casino facilities and several schools.
 
 The following table illustrates certain statistics regarding the Pahrump
valley subdivisions:
 

 
Number of acres acquired since 1969 18,777
Number of lots platted 29,849
Net number of lots sold through August 31, 1998 29,596
Percent of lots sold through August 31, 1998 99%
Number of platted lots available for sale at August 31,
 1998 253
Number of acres available for platting 198
Number of lots to be platted 568
FOR THE YEAR ENDED AUGUST 31, 1998:
Number of lots sold 1,424
Number of lots canceled (488)
Number of lots exchanged (692)
 Number of lots sold, net of cancellations and exchanges 244
 
 
 Central Nevada Utilities Company (CNUC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of PEC,
operates a sewer and water utility for portions of Nevada subdivisions and
certain other properties located within that certificated service
area (which is subject to the regulation of the Public Utilities Commission of
Nevada). As of August 31, 1998, CNUC had 1,759 customers. In recent years,
connections have grown at an average annual rate of 17% and 14% for residential
water and sewer, respectively.
 
 PEC also sells larger unimproved tracts of land in Colorado. PEC owns
unimproved land in Huerfano County, Colorado, which is being sold for
recreational use in parcels of at least 35 acres, at prices ranging from $15,995
to $22,995 depending on location and size. These parcels are sold without any
planned improvements and without water rights, which rights have been reserved
by PEC, except for an right to drill a domestic well. Substantially all
of the parcels have been sold, with approximately 81 parcels remaining in
inventory.
 
 In February 1998, PEC acquired a substantial tract of land in Park County,
Colorado near the town of Hartsel. This property is being sold as 2,137 separate
parcels with an average price and size of $23,581 and five acres, respectively.
This includes 333 parcels which are awaiting approval of a water augmentation
plan by the
 
 6
 9
 
State of Colorado water court, less 172 parcels which will eventually be sold as
pairs. As of August 31, 1998, 1,524 parcels remained unsold (excluding those
awaiting water court approval).
 
 PEC previously acquired improved and unimproved land in Park County,
Colorado, known as South Park Ranch, which is being sold for recreational use as
1,872 separate parcels typically ranging in size from 5 to 9 acres or larger and
at a price of $16,995. As of August 31, 1998, 1,746 parcels had been sold with
126 parcels remaining in inventory. These parcels are sold without any planned
improvements, except for a recreational facility which includes a basketball
court, baseball field and picnic facilities.
 
 The following table illustrates certain statistics regarding the parcels
and lots in Huerfano and Park Counties, Colorado:
 

 
Number of acres acquired since 1969 60,782
Number of parcels and lots platted 4,831
Net number of parcels and lots sold through August 31,
 1998 3,100
Percent of parcels and lots sold through August 31, 1998.... 64%
Number of platted parcels and lots available for sale at
 August 31, 1998 1,731
FOR THE YEAR ENDED AUGUST 31, 1998:
Number of parcels and lots sold 679
Number of parcels and lots canceled (199)
Number of parcels and lots exchanged (182)
 Number of parcels and lots sold, net of cancellations and
 exchanges 298
 
 
 For the fiscal years ended August 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively,
 net revenue from land sales was approximately $13.8 million, $16.6 million
and $18 million, representing approximately 20.1%, 24.7% and 29.6% of total
revenues.
 
 Trust Arrangements
 
 Title to certain of resort properties and land parcels in Huerfano
County, Colorado is held in trust by trustees to meet regulatory requirements
which were applicable at the time of the commencement of sales. In connection
with sales of timeshare interests pursuant to "right-to-use" or installment
sales contracts, title to certain of resort properties in the states of
Nevada and Hawaii are held in trust by trustees to meet requirements of certain
state regulatory authorities. Prior to 1988, PEC sold timeshare interests in
certain of its resorts in the state of Nevada pursuant to "right-to-use"
contracts and continues in other resorts to sell under installment sales
contracts under which the purchaser does not receive a deed until the purchase
price is paid in full. In addition, PEC offers "right-to-use" interests in its
resort in Hawaii, since it is on leased property. In connection with the
registration of the sale of such "right to use" timeshare interests, the
Department of Real Estate of the state of Nevada and the Department of Commerce
and Consumer Affairs of the state of Hawaii require that title to the related
resorts be placed in trust.
 
 Customer Financing
 
 PEC provides financing to virtually all the purchasers of its timeshare
interests, retail lots and land parcels who make a down payment equal to at
least 10% of the purchase price. The financing is generally evidenced by
non-recourse installment sale contracts as well as notes secured by deeds of
trust. Currently, the term of the financing generally ranges from two to twelve
years, with principal and interest payable in equal monthly payments. Interest
rates are fixed and generally range from 12.5% to 15.5% per year based on
prevailing market rates and the amount of the down payment made relative to the
sales price. PEC has a sales program whereby a 5% interest rate is charged on
those sales where the aggregate down payment is at least 50% of the purchase
price and the balance is payable in 36 or fewer monthly payments. PEC believes
its financing is attractive to purchasers who find it convenient to handle all
facets of the purchase through a single source. At August 31, 1998, PEC serviced
a customer receivables portfolio of 16,704 notes receivable relating to sales of
timeshare interests and land, which receivables had an aggregate outstanding
principal balance of $117.2 million, a weighted-average maturity of
approximately 6.7 years and a weighted-average interest rate of 11.9%.
 7
 10
 
 PEC has 6 financing arrangements with 5 institutional lenders for the
financing of customer receivables, which provide for borrowings of up to an
aggregate of $137.5 million. These lines of credit bear interest at variable
rates tied to the prime rate and 90 day London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR)
and are secured by timeshare and land receivables and inventory. At August 31,
1998, an aggregate of $77.4 million was outstanding under such lines of credit
and $60.1 million was available for borrowing. PEC periodically sells its
timeshare and land receivables to various third party purchasers and uses a
portion of the sales proceeds to reduce the outstanding balances of its lines of
credit, thereby increasing the borrowing availability under such lines by the
amount of prepayment. The sales have generally resulted in yields to the
purchaser less than the weighted-average yield on the receivables, with PEC
entitled to retain the difference, the estimated value of which is carried as
interest only receivables. The sales agreements generally provide for PEC to
continue servicing the sold receivables, and require that PEC repurchase or
replace accounts that have become more than 90 days contractually delinquent, or
as to which certain warranties and representations are determined to be
incorrect. In addition, the sales agreements generally require the maintenance
of cash reserve accounts for losses and contain minimum net worth requirements
and other covenants, the non-compliance with which would allow the purchaser to
replace PEC as the servicer. The sales agreements for timeshare receivables
contain certain covenants that generally require PEC to use its best efforts to
remain the manager of the related resorts and to cause the Associations to
maintain appropriate insurance and pay the real estate taxes. Performance by PEC
of such covenants generally is guaranteed by the Company. The principal balances
of receivables sold by PEC were $9.4 million, $30.1 million and $16 million
during fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
 At August 31, 1998, PEC was contingently liable to replace or repurchase
receivables sold with recourse in the aggregate amount of $66.8 million, if and
as such receivables become delinquent. Delinquencies greater than 60 days have
increased in fiscal 1998 from fiscal 1997 primarily due to a change in emphasis
in the Collection Department. The Preferred Client Services (PCS) group was
instituted to work with the portfolio and develop better relationships with
customers, thus reducing otherwise potential cancellations. There is a much
greater focus on working with the purchasers and their individual problems
rather than merely demanding repayment of debt. These procedures primarily
contributed to a decrease in cancellations to $15.3 million during fiscal 1998
from $20.3 million in fiscal 1997, a 24.8% decrease. PEC charges off or fully
reserves all receivables that are more than 90 days delinquent. The following
table sets forth information with respect to receivables owned and sold that
were 60 or more days delinquent, excluding accounts that have been fully
reserved or charged-off, as of the dates indicated (thousands of dollars):
 


 AUGUST 31,
 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994
 
60-day delinquent $ 11,836 $ 5,233 $ 6,685 $ 5,407 $ 5,330
Total receivables $136,509 $137,688 $132,438 $123,752 $112,688
60-day delinquency
 percentage 8.67% 3.80% 5.05% 4.37% 4.73%

 
 The 60-day delinquent amounts include any account that is contractually 60
days delinquent, including those accounts whereby customers are still making
payments but have not cured their delinquency status.
 
 PEC provides an allowance for cancellations at the time it recognizes
revenues from sales of timeshare interests, which PEC believes, based on its
experience and its analysis of economic conditions, is adequate to absorb losses
on receivables that become uncollectible. Upon the sale of the receivables, the
allowance related to those receivables is reduced and the reserve for notes
receivable sold with recourse is appropriately increased.
 
 Marketing
 
 PEC markets timeshare interests and land through on-site and off-site sales
offices. sales staff receives commissions based on net sales volume. PEC
maintains fully-staffed on-site sales offices at its timeshare properties in Las
Vegas and Reno, Nevada; Steamboat Springs, Colorado; Indian Shores and Orlando,
Florida; and, Brigantine, New Jersey; as well as the Las Vegas headquarters, and
at its land projects in Nevada and Colorado. In Hawaii, brokers for PEC maintain
a smaller on-site sales office staffed with one to
 
 8
 11
 
two sales associates. PEC also maintains off-site sales offices in West Covina,
California, Dallas, Texas and Denver, Colorado and plans to open an office in
Houston, Texas. marketing efforts are targeted primarily at tourists
meeting its customer profile. Currently, approximately 37.1% of sales are made
through the Las Vegas sales office. One of the principal sales techniques
utilized by PEC in Las Vegas is to offer pre-screened potential customers a gift
such as show tickets in exchange for attending sales presentations. In
addition, to show tickets, other inducements such as local tour packages,
dinners, and short-term room accommodations are also offered. The marketing
techniques utilized at sales offices at locations other than Las Vegas
include exhibition booths located at shows, fairs and other attractions,
that generate inquiries from prospective customers, whom PEC then contacts by
telephone, (ii) referrals from existing customers, (iii) limited direct mail
programs, and (iv) brokers specializing in lead generation. Various premiums and
inducements are offered to prospective customers to obtain their attendance at
sales presentations, including the offer of short-term accommodations at certain
of timeshare resorts.
 
 As part of its marketing strategy, PEC maintains an internal exchange
program. This program enables owners of timeshare interests to exchange
their occupancy right in the resort in which they own an interest for an
occupancy right at the same or a different time in another of timeshare
resorts. In addition, PEC has a sales program pursuant to which purchasers of
its timeshare interests, retail lots and land may exchange their equity
interests in one property for an interest in another of properties. For
example, a purchaser of a timeshare interest in one of timeshare resorts
may exchange his equity interest for an interest in a different unit within the
same resort, for an interest in one of other resorts or for a retail lot
or land parcel.
 
 The agreement of sale for a timeshare interest or land may be rescinded
within various statutory rescission periods. For land sales made at a location
other than the property, the customer may generally cancel the contract within a
specified period, usually five months from the date of purchase, provided that
the contract is not in default, and provided the customer has completed a
developer-guided inspection and tour of the subject property first, and then
requests the cancellation. At August 31, 1998, $730,000 of recognized sales
remained subject to such cancellation. If a customer defaults after all
rescission and cancellation periods have expired, all payments are generally
retained by PEC, and the customer forfeits all rights to the property.
 
SEASONALITY
 
 Sales of timeshare interests and land are somewhat seasonal. For the fiscal
years ended August 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, quarterly sales as a percentage of
annual sales, for each of the fiscal quarters averaged:
 


 QUARTER ENDED % OF ANNUAL SALES
 
November 30 23.7
February 28 24.0
May 31 26.6
August 31 25.7
 100.0%
 
 
 The majority of the customers are tourists. The major
marketing area, Las Vegas, Nevada, reaches peaks of tourist activity at periods
different from the other major marketing areas, such as Reno, Nevada
and Denver, Park and Huerfano Counties, Colorado, which are more active in
summer than in winter. The other major marketing areas, Honolulu,
Hawaii, and Orlando, Florida, are not subject to seasonality. The Company is not
dependent upon a limited number or segment of customers whose loss would have a
material adverse effect on the Company.
 
COMPETITION
 
 The timeshare and real estate industries are highly competitive.
Competitors in the timeshare and real estate business include hotels, other
timeshare properties and real estate properties. Certain of the 
competitors are substantially larger and have more capital and other resources
than the Company.
 
 9
 12
 
 timeshare plans compete directly with many other timeshare plans,
some of which are in facilities located in Las Vegas, Reno, Lake Tahoe,
Honolulu, Atlantic City, Orlando, Tampa, and Steamboat Springs. In recent years,
several major lodging, hospitality and entertainment companies have begun to
develop and market timeshare properties. According to ARDA data, in 1997,
approximately 31.5% of timeshare resorts were located in the Mountain/Pacific
region of the United States, 23.6% in Florida, 12% in the Northeast region,
16.5% in the Southeast region and 16.4% in the Central region of the United
States. In addition, PEC competes with condominium projects and with traditional
hotel accommodations in these areas. Certain of these competing projects and
accommodations are larger and more luxurious than facilities. There are
currently available approximately 108,000 hotel and motel rooms in Las Vegas,
Nevada; 37,000 in Honolulu, Hawaii; 22,000 in Washoe County, Nevada, which
includes Reno and Lake Tahoe; 98,000 in the Orlando, Florida metropolitan area;
24,000 in the Indian Shores, Florida area; 23,000 in Atlantic City, New Jersey
and 3,000 in Steamboat Springs, Colorado.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
 The timeshare and real estate operations are subject to extensive
regulation, potential suspension and licensing requirements by federal and state
authorities. The following is a summary of the regulations applicable to the
Company.
 
 Environmental Regulation
 
 Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and
regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be
required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical
releases at such property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to
third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup
costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws
typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether
the owner knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants, and the liability
under such laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is
divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of responsibility. The
costs of investigation, remediation or removal of such substances may be
substantial, and the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly
remediate such property, may adversely affect the ability to sell or
rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral. Persons who
arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances also may
be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at the
disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated
by such person. In addition, the owner or former owners of a site may be subject
to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from
environmental contamination emanating from a site.
 
 Timeshare Regulation
 
 Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 119A requires the Company to give each
customer a Public Offering Statement that discloses all aspects of the timeshare
program, including the terms and conditions of sale, the common facilities, the
costs to operate and maintain common facilities, the history and all
services and facilities available to the purchasers. Section 514E of the Hawaii
Revised Statutes provides for similar information to be provided to all
prospective purchasers through the use of the Hawaii Disclosure Statement, just
as Chapter 721 of the Florida Statutes similarly provides through the use of a
Public Offering Statement. Section 11000, et seq., of the California Business
and Professions Code also provides for similar information to be provided to all
prospective purchasers through the use of an Out-of-state Timeshare Permit
issued by the California Department of Real Estate. Section 45 of the New Jersey
Statutes Annotated provides for similar information to be provided to all
prospective purchasers through the use of a Public Offering Statement. The Texas
Register at 22 Texas Administrative Code, Section 543 provides for similar
information to be provided to all prospective purchasers through the use of the
Texas Timeshare Disclosure Statement, and similarly, the Mississippi Real Estate
Commission requires that the situs state Public Offering Statement provides
prospective purchasers with the same information. Title 12, Article 61 of the
Colorado Revised Statutes provides for similar information to be provided to all
prospective purchasers in their contracts of sales or by
 
 10
 13
 
separate written documents. Nevada and Colorado require a five-day rescission
period for all timeshare purchasers. The rescission period required by Hawaii
and New Jersey is seven days. The rescission period required by Florida is ten
days. The rescission period in California, Mississippi and Texas for
out-of-state sales is five days. The Nevada, California, New Jersey, Hawaii,
Colorado, Texas, Florida, Mississippi and Texas timeshare statutes have
stringent restrictions on sales and advertising practices and require the
Company to utilize licensed sales XX.
 
 Lending Regulation
 
 PEC is subject to various federal lending regulations related to marketing,
financing and selling consumer receivables. These federal regulations include:
Fair Housing Act, Americans With Disabilities Act, Interstate Land Sales Full
Disclosure Act, Truth-In-Lending Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act,
Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Federal Trade Commission Telemarketing Rule,
Federal Communications Commission Telephone Census Protection Act, Federal Trade
Commission Act (Unfair or Deceptive Act or Practices) and Fair Debt Collections
Practices Act.
 
 The Company believes that it has made all required filings with state, city
and county authorities and is in material compliance with all federal, state and
local regulations governing timeshare interests. The Company believes that such
regulations have not had a material adverse effect on any phase of the 
operations, including the overall cost of acquiring property. Compliance with or
changes in official interpretations of regulations might, however, impose
additional compliance costs on the Company that cannot be predicted.
 
 Real Estate Regulation
 
 The real estate industry is subject to extensive regulation. The Company is
subject to compliance with various federal, state and local environmental,
zoning and other statutes and regulations regarding the acquisition,
subdivision, development and sale of real estate and various aspects of its
financing operations. The Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act establishes
strict guidelines with respect to the subdivision and sale of land in interstate
commerce. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has
enforcement powers with respect to this statute. In some instances (e.g., land
sales in Huerfano County, Colorado), the Company has been exempt from HUD
registration requirements because of the size or number of the subdivided
parcels and the limited nature or type of its offerings. The Company registers
its timeshare properties with various state agencies. The Company must disclose
financial information concerning the property, evidence of title, a description
of the intended manner of offering, proposed advertising materials, and must
bear the costs of such registration, which include legal and filing fees.
 
 The Company believes that it is in compliance, in all material respects,
with all applicable federal, state and local regulations. The Company believes
that such regulations have not had a material adverse effect on any phase of its
operations. Compliance with future changes in regulations might, however, impose
additional compliance costs on the Company that cannot be predicted.
 
 The city and county governments in areas where the Company operates have
enacted licensing and other ordinances that affect timeshare projects.
 
 Advertising Regulation
 
 In addition to requirements imposed by the various state timeshare acts,
 marketing and advertising procedures are subject to the Federal Trade
Commission Act (Unfair and Deceptive Practices), Federal Trade Commission
Telemarketing Rules, Federal Communication Commission Telephone Consumer
Protection Act, Fair Housing Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and various state
consumer protection laws regulating telephone solicitations, the sale of travel,
and sweepstakes, both in states in which PEC timeshare resorts are located or
registered and in states in which it advertises.
 
 11
 14
 
EMPLOYEES
 
 As of August 31, 1998, PEC had 1,292 employees, of whom 1,191 were
full-time employees and 101 were part-time employees. Full-time employees were
comprised of the following: 655 sales and marketing officers and XX, 174
general and administrative officers, managers and support staff, 349 hotel
XX, and 13 utility company XX. None of employees are
represented by a collective bargaining unit. The Company believes that its
relations with its employees are satisfactory.
 
